

Thank you very much. We had an amazing convention. That was one of the best. I think it was one of the best ever. In terms -- in terms of enthusiasm, in terms of I think what it represents, getting our word out. Ivanka was incredible last night. She did an incredible job.  And so many of the speakers were so amazing and ground-setting. I mean, really ground-setting. We were -- it was just something very, very special. We're even getting good marks on television. Can you believe this?  Hard to believe. Oh, they'll change. Don't worry.  But it has been -- it has been just an incredible four days. I want to thank the people of Cleveland and the people of Ohio.  Because it's -- I mean, what -- what they've done. You know, we read two, three weeks ago, "this is going to be horrible; we're going to have riots; we're going to have problems." Everything was a problem, a problem. This was probably one of the most peaceful, one of the most beautiful, one of the most love-filled conventions in the history of conventions.  And when they talk about unity, I want to tell you, that was unity. That was unity. Right? I saw you last night. That was unity. That was amazing. And the party has just come together. The party has come together. And the few people that aren't there, it's OK. You know. You've got to understand. I ran as an outsider. I didn't want anybody. Now, I have guys like Mike Pence. I mean, this isn't supposed to happen.  See, now if I don't win, I'm going to blame Mike, right? We have to blame Mike.  But we want to thank a number of people because, in particular, and we're going to leave out some because that always happens and it's very sad. The set -- I'm a real estate guy -- I build buildings. I build things. I want to tell you, that was the most beautiful set I think I've ever seen, not only for conventions, but for anything.  And the folks that worked on that, especially the carpenters, the electricians. You know, we forget about -- we forget about this stuff. Those sheet-rockers were up there. They did a heck of a job. I said, "You're going to wrap that sheet rock?" And he said, "Yeah, Mr. Trump, we just cut it." I said, "I know what you do, but you don't see it very much." We have our chairman from New York I see right over there -- my man, my leader. Right? We're going to win New York. We're going to try and win New York.  You know, if we win New York, it's over. Right? It's over. Thank you, Chairman. I really appreciate it.
So, a few of the people. Harold Hamm is here. Where is Harold? He's around here -- look at Harold here. Oh, boy. You talk about money. Oy, yoy, yoy. You know, Barry Switzer, the great football coach, won a Super Bowl, won a national championship. And I guess he's Harold's best friend, or one of them. So he came up to my office and he's sitting there and says, "You know Mr. Trump, Harold is one of the great energy tycoons, but more importantly from our standpoint, one of the people that really understands energy better than anybody else." You know we hired these consultants, they don't know what they're doing. If they were any good, they'd be worth $10 billion, OK? But Harold is one of the really knowledgeable people in energy. And Barry Switzer -- and he's a tough cookie and a good guy, but a tough cookie. He said, "You know Mr. Trump, that Harold Hamm, he's my friend, but these other companies they go out and they spend millions of dollars looking for oil. That guy takes a straw, puts in the ground and oil pours out of it." That's the kind of a guy we want telling us about energy, right?  Harold, and you made a great speech the other night, great to have you. We want the real players right? We don't want the consultants, we don't want the guys that he hires, we want him. So, Harold, great that you're here, I didn't know you'd be here. I appreciate it. And your speech was terrific, by the way. We also have, and I think very important, Jeff Sessions, who may or may not be here, still but I want to tell you he was the first one.  Mike, he was right at the beginning. And he's so highly respected and honestly Ted Cruz has so much respect for Jeff Sessions, and everybody knew that Jeff Sessions was going to be with Ted Cruz during the campaign. And Jeff said, "You know, I've never seen anything like what's happening. You've got a movement going on." And he was really the first big, big player -- U.S. senator, highly respected by everybody, one of the really smart people and low key. I like that, everyone once and a while, you know that low key genius.  "Well, Donald, I don't know if I'd do it that way, why don't you try doing it this way?" I say that's genius.  Every once and a while we have people like that right? But Jeff Sessions was there right at the beginning, and it was a huge upset, because when Jeff came on, everybody thought he was going to just routinely be with Ted. And frankly he's never endorsed anybody before. You know, he's not an endorser. This is -- he's called a tough endorsement. And he went out and he endorsed me, and that was a fantastic thing. And he's been a great help ever since. So Jeff Sessions, I appreciate it.  Jeff Larson's around here someplace -- where's Jeff Larson? He's around here someplace. What a job Jeff did. Reince, of course, where's my superstar?  I think he's probably on a plane flying to our next meeting. This guy works so hard. You know I said yesterday in front of a small group, because we're raising money like it's crazy what's going on -- and you know the nice thing? First of all, I put in over $60 million. Last month, I think I put in $3.8 million. But we're raising money also for the Republican Party, which is very important.  And -- and the beautiful thing -- I can't guarantee these figures, but I heard yesterday alone was like $3.5 million from small donors. The average donation was just over $50. And we're raising tremendous amount of money from the small donors. To me, that's more important in a sense. I mean Harold can write his checks but Harold's only one vote, right? These other people give you $50, but they vote by the millions, that's what we want. To hell with Harold, right?  But -- but we have, you know, just tremendous numbers of people coming in, and we're really building up a war chest that's going to be great. And I'm continuing to fund my campaign, large portions of it. And in fact, I thought I gave $2 million last month, and they said "No, you actually gave $3.8." I said "Oh." It's always good when you don't even know what you gave, and it doesn't matter.  You know it's nice when they say you gave $3.8 instead of two, and I don't even get angry at anybody, right?  But I'm over $60 million, because I said I was going to fund the primaries. And I didn't know this was going to happen, so I guess we just keep going along, right? But I'll tell you, it's an honor, it's an honor. And I -- and I've said this, a lot of the television people have come up to me, and a lot of the -- actually, one very highly respected writer called up and I've told this story a few times, but I said -- he said, "What you've done is incredible." And this was actually in September. They called it the "summer of Trump." And he said, "What you've done is incredible." I said "Nothing's incredible unless I win." And I wasn't talking about the primaries. He said "No, no, no. what you've done is incredible. It's been the summer of Trump, it's down in the history books, there's never been anything like it." Bill O'Reilly said it's the greatest single political phenomena he's ever seen in his life. A couple of weeks ago, did you see that?
Yeah. And Brit Hume said it, and I'm not so sure if Brit Hume likes me, but he said it. So -- but I like him. So what happened is they said that. I said no, no, no, you don't understand. I don't care. I don't do anything unless I win, and I'm not talking about the primaries. I mean, the whole thing -- because otherwise, what have we done? What have we done? Then I got a call from somebody else a month ago saying the same thing. But now, it was the summer of Trump. It was the autumn of Trump. It was the Christmas of Trump. It was everything. And it's really of you because it's a movement. What we have going is a movement. I was just on the cover of Time again this week. Time Magazine's like, eh, OK.  You know, I think I was on the cover of Time Magazine twice in my life and like six times in the last number of months. So you tell me, which is more important, real estate or politic, OK? That's -- that's the way -- is that true, Harold? Because I have six for politics and I have two for real estate or whatever they put me on for. But it's been -- it's been amazing. But I said, look, it really to me matters. They said no, no, no, believe me, what you've done is in the history books. There's never been anything like it. Then I won the primaries. They said the same thing. This is crazy, now you're really in the history -- I said no, it doesn't matter. unless we beat Hillary Clinton, and I mean beat her badly.  I will consider it -- and I shouldn't say this, because you know what? If it doesn't work out, I could say, well, I did a good job. So I'm hurting myself by saying this. If I don't win, meaning that final stage, beat 17 people -- because actually 17 including, but it was actually 17 because there was one that we don't even talk about who joined who left very quickly. One statement, he was gone, OK?  And then don't forget Hillary had a couple of guys who dropped out and Bernie was tough, Bernie was tough. We're going to get a lot of the Bernie voters, by the way.  Because they didn't treat Bernie right. They didn't treat him right. I mean, I don't know Bernie. I don't -- you know, I don't know him, I've never met him. But they didn't treat him right, honestly. And what happened -- he ran a very, very good campaign. And Hillary's people just swamped him. You're looking at Debra Wasserman Schultz. I'll take  Reince over her any day in terms of competence. Forget it.  Not for being nice or any of those things. Who cares? I will take Reince in terms of competence over her -- believe me -- any day. Any day. You see what she's done to that party. So I will tell you that I think we're going to get a lot of his voters because of the trade issue. Because they understand, but because of the trade issue. I think we're going to get a lot of their voters. So I have to thank Reince. I want to thank Steve King. Where's Steve King? That's our local -- where's Steve? Where? Thank you, Steve. I want to thank some of our security guys. First of all, the Secret Service is unbelievable. Unbelievable.  They've been hit a little bit over the last couple of years. Let me tell you, these guys are fantastic. I'm the best thing that ever happened to the Secret Service.  Because I go around, Mark and all these guys, I go around saying how great they are. They are great. These are great, great people, OK?  So I want to thank the Secret Service. I want to thank the police of Cleveland, the Cleveland Police Department. The mayor, I want to thank. I want to thank your police chief. He is amazing. I don't know if he's here. But boy, he has done some job working -- working with all of the folks from law enforcement. And you heard last night, we're going to be protecting the law enforcement. They are doing some job. So we're going to be protecting them. I want to thank Eddie Dick . Where's Eddie? Is Eddied here? I want to thank Kevin Schroeder , Keith Schiller. Become famous. He's becoming more famous than me. I have to thank -- and again, your police chief has done a fantastic job in Cleveland, done a fantastic -- and we have .  In terms of some of the folks, David Gilbert. Where's David? David around some place? Joe Roman , Chris Conner , Chris Kelly. These people are all here. Don't bother, you don't have to come up and speak.  Beth Mooney . Where's Brian Jack? Brian Jack. Boy, Brian. Brian. What a job you did, Brian.
OK. That's all. Now, you can leave, go to the next location, Brian.  Go to the next location. Hillary's trying the to pick her vice president as fast as possible, because she wants to take away a little of the success that we had at this convention. This convention has been a success. You know, people, if you turn on television, you turn on some of the dishonest media, you'll see that oh, wow, this happened and that happened. What happened? You know, somebody got booed the hell out of a place by thousands and thousands of people.  There wasn't one person in the room -- not one. And then they said, "There may not be unity." Unity? There wasn't one person in the room who was -- including the Texas delegation, right? Honestly, he may have ruined his political career. I feel so badly. I feel so badly.  And, you know, he'll come and endorse over the next little while, he'll come and endorse, because he has no choice. But I don't want his endorsement. What difference does it make? I don't want his endorsement. I have such great endorse -- I don't want his endorsement. Just -- Ted, stay home, relax, enjoy yourself.  Just a couple of things. I knew his speech, they gave me his speech, I saw exactly what his speech was, because when you go up to speak, you have to give your speech, you know? We don't want surprises, right? So they gave it. They came to me and said "It's a boring speech, Mr. Trump. Nothing good, nothing bad. He congratulates you on the victory, and here's the speech." Well, he got up, and of the first two sentences, he added a sentence. In other words, he got up and he added a sentence, which could have been viewed as a nasty thing in terms of what he said, because he was implying something which is wrong, but that's OK. So he took his speech -- and you're bound by the speech, just like you're bound by the pledge, right?  You're bound by the pledge. So Ted Cruz took his speech that was done, was on the teleprompter, said hello, then made a statement that wasn't on the speech, and then went back to his speech. See, to me, that's dishonorable. To me, not signing a pledge is dishonorable. OK? It's dishonorable, but not a nice thing to do. And I talk this way, because we're all together. We created one of the most successful conventions in the history of conventions.  And the television ratings for this convention were through the roof. I get a kick out of CNN. "I don't know if this is a successful convention. I don't know." In the meantime, all they talk about is Trump and the convention, are right? And I have to tell you, Melania did a great job. What a great speech. What a great speech.  What a great speech. And the presentation is still being talked about. What a beautiful speech. Ivanka last night, unbelievable, unbelievable.  Unbelievable, to have that kind of an introduction. And Tiffany, who's never done it, the biggest group she's ever been in front of is probably 22 people in a classroom.  Tiffany was amazing. And Eric and Don.  I just don't want them running for political office, because somebody's got to stay behind and run the business. I mean, you know, we can't go crazy.  But I get a kick, because the ratings on television are through the roof. And nobody's going to watch -- look, I'll -- this has nothing to do with politics, but maybe it has a little to do. Nobody's going to watch this next convention coming. Who the -- who's going to -- I'm going to have a hard time watching her final speech. Number one, I know her too well. Number two, boring, it's boring.  Very boring. Oh, how about that final speech? And our final speech, our final speech.  Now, it wasn't my fault, but I think it went like an hour and 25 minutes, and the networks didn't know what to do, because they had all of their programming, big programming -- the local news is a very big factor on television. You never, ever move your local news. They all moved it.  They said, the heck with the local news, Mike, they said we're moving it. And Kimmel and Fallon and the shows, they all went back a long way, because they weren't going to miss this convention. I love that, you know? I love it. I knew I said, oh, wow, I'm supposed to be off. Let's keep going, but it wasn't my fault.  What happened -- what happened was the applause was so long and so crazy.  It really was. I mean, if you look, the speech was fine, but the applause were longer than the speech.
So it was -- it was amazing. There was great love in that room. Honestly, that was all about unity. And we may be missing a couple of people. We may be missing just a couple of people. Two other things, two other things, just to finish with Ted. Because I like Ted. He's fine. Again, I don't want his endorsement. If he gives it, I will not accept it. Just so you understand. If he gives it, I will -- I will not accept. It won't matter. Honestly, he should have done it because nobody cares. And he would have been in better shape for four years from now if he's going to -- I don't think -- I don't see him winning anyway, frankly. But if he did, it's fine. Although maybe I'll set up a super-PAC if he decides to run.  Are you allowed to set up a super-PAC, Mike, if you are the president, to fight somebody? But -- but there were two things that he said yesterday were lies. Ready? I didn't start anything with the wife. A PAC, which he's very friendly with, released a cover story on my wife, who was a tremendously successful and elegant model. And she was on the cover of GQ magazine. I think it was GQ, right? GQ magazine is not exactly Penthouse. But she was on the cover of GQ magazine, an artsy picture. But you know, she was a model, really successful. She didn't need to marry me. She was making a lot of money, believe me.  In fact, I had to work hard to get her to marry me. It wasn't that easy.  It's true.  It's so true. You think I'm kidding. So -- so they released this picture which was, you know, to the people of the state of Utah. I love Utah. I love the people of Utah. But that's not where you want to necessarily send a risque picture. Everybody in Utah got a picture. And I don't think they showed that it was GQ. I don't even think they showed. They took the GQ off. They just had -- they cut all the stuff out so they didn't see it was a magazine cover from, you know, a reasonably respected magazine. And it was Melania Trump. Now, and I'm saying this just to clear it up, because that's a -- "he took ." I didn't do anything. Then when I saw somebody tweeted a picture of Melania, and a picture of Heidi, who I think, by the way, is a very nice woman and a very beautiful woman. I have to tell you, I think Heidi Cruz is a great person. I think it's the best thing he'd got going, and his kids, if you want to know the truth.  In a certain way, although he's got good intellect, but he doesn't know how to use it. And he was a good debater, but he didn't do well in the debates against me, according to every poll. I mean, every poll, you know, he's this great debater, except he lost in every single poll and every single debate. So that takes care of the Heidi thing. Because Heidi's a terrific woman, but they sent out -- now, he said, "That was a PAC; we had nothing to do." Folks, a lot of us are political people, right? We're not babies. His people were on the PAC. So he said, "We had nothing to do; we had..." Now, probably you could trace it down with e-mails, but they're pretty smart. They don't even send -- probably just phone calls. But look, it was a PAC with many of his friends. It was a Cruz super-PAC. I think he even said, "Well, it wasn't really meant for us." It was a Cruz PAC. It was his people. OK, so they sent out the first picture. Please remember that. Number two, his father. I don't know his father. I met him once. I think he's a lovely guy. I think he's a lovely guy. All I did is point out the fact that on the cover of the National Enquirer there was a picture of him and crazy Lee Harvey Oswald having breakfast. Now, Ted never denied that it was his father. Instead, he said, "Donald Trump" -- I had nothing to do with it. This was a magazine that, frankly, in many respects, should be very respected. They got O.J. They got Edwards. I mean, if that was the New York Times, they would have gotten Pulitzer Prizes for their reporting. I've always said, why didn't the National Enquirer get the Pulitzer Prize for Edwards and O.J. Simpson and all of these things? But anyway, so they have a picture, an old picture, having breakfast with Lee Harvey Oswald. Now, nothing -- I'm not saying anything. They said -- and here's how the press takes that story. So this had nothing to do with me, except I might have pointed it out, but it had nothing to do with me. I have no control over anything. I might have pointed it out. But they never denied. Did anybody ever deny that it was the father? They're not saying, "Oh, that wasn't really my father." It's a little hard to do, because it looks like him.
So, here's the story. The press takes that, and they say, "Donald Trump and his conspiracy theories; he went out and said his father was with Lee Harvey Oswald, and he assassinated the president." What did I do? So two things. Those were the two points. So in those two points, he said about the endorsement -- and I just had it cleared up. I think I'm doing the right thing in doing it, but I have to do it. Number one, the Heidi thing you understand now. Number two, I know nothing about his father. I know nothing about Lee Harvey Oswald. But there was a picture on the front page of the National Inquirer, which does have credibility, and they're not going to do pictures like that because they get sued for a lot of money if things are wrong, OK, a lot of money. And there was a picture. And that's the only thing I know. So now, they use the two things as the reason he won't support. Let me tell you something. We, if for no other reason, if people really dislike me, and I don't think they do any more after the four days. Hey look, if I have kids that like me that much, how bad can I be, right, right?   And they love their daddy. I was a good father. But I have smart children and good children. And I'm getting a lot of credit. I think they were the star of the convention. Mike, I think they saved us. I think they saved us, Mike. But no, my children were really -- and they're saying, people are saying that, they were the star -- the real stars of the convention. Everyone of them -- they were -- I was so proud of them. I mean, it was such a great thing. But to finish, this was an amazing period of time. This was an amazing convention. I just heard a number -- is Dan Scavino there? Come up, Dan, for a second. I just -- Dan Scavino. You might have seen him on Twitter and Facebook. You know what he is? He's a Facebook, Twitter junky. This guy -- that was the first time I've seen him look up in seven months. He's always looking down.  Nobody knows Facebook and Twitter and that stuff better than Dan. Why don't you give just a quick report because I hear the numbers are astronomical. Where do you hear these -- you know, we're dealing in a modern age. I hate to do this. A lot of people saying what's Facebook, what's -- unfortunately, we're dealing in a modern age. How about giving a quick -- you want to hear this? Wait until you hear the numbers. You won't even believe them. Go ahead.

Ten million. 

So one of my really good choices in life, although I'll confirm that in about three and a half months from now, but I believe truly it will be one of my really great decisions is picking Mike Pence to run along with me and to run for you . And so I'd like to ask Governor Pence from the great state of Indiana, and we love Indiana and Bobby Knight, who I love and Lou Holtz and you're wonderful -- you know, Gene from Purdue -- we have them all -- and Digger. We've got a lot of coaches out there. But these guys are great people and they love Mike and maybe Mike can say a few words. Thank you. 

Thank you. Just one thing I wanted to leave you with: Supreme Court justices.  No matter how much you like or dislike, no matter what your feelings, whether you're the governor of Ohio, whether you're a senator from Texas or any of the other people that I beat so easily and so badly, you have no choice, you've got to go for Trump. Supreme Court justices. If Hillary Clinton gets it, she is going to replace -- and last night I called him our beloved Justice Scalia, he was great.  And we're going to get somebody as close to him and his views and philosophy as possible. Conservative, all the things you want, the things we stand for as a party. And I promise you that, and that's why I issued 11 names because being an outsider, they said oh, well we don't know, supposing you put up liberal judges. I say I have an idea, it's never been done before, you know we have a lot of ideas that people don't normally have, right? I said I have an idea. In order to -- because I really just have no problem. They didn't know if they believed me, well we don't know what happens if we elect him and then he puts up liberal judges. By the way, our conservative Republican presidents haven't done so well with the judges, have they? OK. I mean, we have Obamacare, should have been knocked out twice because of an appointment.  So we'll do better, we'll do much better. That's why I put out a list of 11 judges. But no matter what you think of Donald Trump, as a Republican, if that's what your philosophy is, if you're a great, great believer in the Constitution, you have no choice. Hate to say it. Whether you're a hater or a lover, and by the way, last night I don't think there was one hater in that room. And that was packed.
That was packed. There were no seats and those seats were selling for a lot of money on eBay. They were going for big numbers. In fact, I was thinking about taking 10 or 12 tickets and saying, "Let's go." But they were selling for a lot of money. And it was amazing. So, just remember, Supreme Court justices. I want to finish by this -- we've had some incredible support, because when I started everyone said, you know, some of these pundits that now say, "Oh, well, you can't do that, you can't" -- these were the same people that say, "well, if he runs -- but he won't run." I ran. Then they said, "Oh," then they go, "But he won't win." Then I started off at 6 percent, which is pretty high because I was only there about two days. People forgot. So that was only two days, I didn't get the full backing. Then it went to like 12, and then to 18. And every week they said, "Well, that's his ceiling. And he can't do more than that." So we go from six -- right? These -- I saw them in the audience, those two. So we go from six, to 12 to 18 and every week they go, "Well, that's the ceiling." Charles Krauthammer, "They will not run, he will not run. And if he runs, he will just be doing it for fun." This is not fun. This is a lot of work. OK. This is a lot of work, folks. I didn't need this. This wasn't in exactly the schedule. But I saw how badly our country is doing and how easy it will be to bring back. Trade deals alone will make an impact like you won't believe. Money will come in. Jobs will come in. And then you look at the military where it's so depleted, but we're taking care of other nations. And I want to continue to take care of other nations, there are a lot of good things about that, but they have to pay us. They have to pay us.  You know, I remember years ago, and I've always said, "Wow, I never quite understood it, " because they said, "The United States spends ten times the money on its military than anybody else in the world." I said -- I said, "Well, China has a big military, all these places. That's surprising." But, you know, I was building buildings and things, I never really gave it too much thought. And then I realized, I remember -- I always remember, we spend so much more than anybody else. I said, how can that be? We're protecting everybody in the world. I mean, we're protecting all these nations, and these are rich nations and they're great nations. Japan, they send their cars, they make a fortune, and then they don't pay us the amount that it costs. I don't want to make a profit. I want costs, pay us what it costs. Maybe we can't get it. And if we can't -- see, you have to be prepared to walk. You have to. If you're not prepared to walk. Hillary Clinton came out when she heard what I said about Japan. Japan is a very rich nation. Those cars are flowing in. They're rich because of us, if you think about it. OK. Those cars -- you go to Los Angeles, you see these massive ships. It looks like NASCAR. By the way, thank you Brian France, owner of NASCAR. He endorsed Donald Trump. I love NASCAR! Richard Petty endorsed me. All -- a lot of the great drivers endorsed me. King Richard. But they -- it's like -- it's like these guys driving -- it's like Richard Petty driving -- they're coming out of the boats, these massive ships. And they don't pay us. And then the general gets up and the general says, "Mr. Trump is wrong, doesn't he understand that Japan pays us 50 percent of the cost of defending them?" Oh, great. They say, "Mr. Trump, could we have a comment?" I said, "Yeah, why aren't they paying 100 percent," Right? And Germany and South Korea, we have 28,000 soldiers. And think of this one, Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia wouldn't be there for one week if we pulled out. They have nothing but money. Nothing but money. They have so much money, they -- they don't know what to do with it, OK. They don't know what to do with it. Who's -- who is making our deals for us? One deal like that has a massive impact on our budgets, on our economics as a country. We're up to $19 trillion. We're very soon going to be $21 trillion. Trillion. Nobody even knows what -- if I could take -- I could take the great Harold Hamm, I could say, "Tell me what a trillion dollars is?" Although, he's worth almost a trillion, so he may know. He may know.  But, you know, honestly, most people don't even know what the hell it -- it's so much. They even know. They wouldn't know how to define it. So here's the story. We are going to do something really special, and our message caught on. When I started this, we had all these pundits saying, it won't happen. And I had a little staff -- Corey Lewandowski was great. I have to tell you.
And he's been very loyal and he's been on CNN, and he's really been fighting for me, which is very nice. And I -- I respect that a lot.  Hope Hicks. Where's Hope? Come here, Hope. Come here, Hope. Get up here, Hope. Hope Hicks, the legendary Hope Hicks. Come on up here, Hope. Come. Come. Come. She's shy. Get her up here. Come on, Hope. Come on, Hope. We had a very small, but tough team. We had a small -- here's Hope Hicks. They're not going to lift you over that barricade probably. Look at her. She's very shy. She's actually -- she's a very shy person, but she's a great person. She's done an amazing job. And we had a staff of between George -- where's our George? Come on over here. Come on. Fellows, get over here. Just stand over here someplace. Get up. Get up on the dais. Come on. I'd get Hope up, but she can't get through the Secret Service people there. And what happened -- so we had a small staff. And I got criticized for it. They'd say, "So and so" -- I won't use names because I don't want to embarrass anybody -- "so and so has spent many times what Trump has spent and has a much bigger staff," and then we win. I don't get any credit. You're supposed to get credit if you have smaller staff, less payroll, and you win. But in politics, you don't get credit. So anyway, so I want to thank my entire group. Then we beefed it up because we're really now in the final stretch -- three-and-a-half months. And Paul Manafort has done an amazing job. He's here someplace. Where's Paul?  Paul Manafort -- oh, good. You made it. Paul Manafort has done a fantastic . And all of Paul's people Paul brought on the staff. And we really do. We have a great staff of talented people, a great staff. And most of them are right here. And John and everybody -- my man right here; and Michael. You have to be -- Michael, come on up, Michael. Get up here, Michael. Come on. Get a little TV time. Look at him.  I don't know  hired for Hollywood. I tend to doubt it, but you never know. Come on up, Rick. So we have a great group of people. And we have a group of people that really wants to win, and I think knows how to win. And we've all sort of been winning all our lives. This group of people in front of me, I know so many of you, we've been winning all our lives. We've got exactly three months and three weeks. I am going to be working so hard. I'm not going to, like last time where they disappeared for the last month-and-a-half. What happened? Where is everybody? What happened? And give Obama credit. He was on every television show. He was all over the place. We're not going to disappear. So we have a really great chance of taking our country back, of change, and of getting great Supreme Court justices.  So, I want to thank everybody. I love you folks. This has been such an incredible movement. I love you. I know so many of you. We're going to go all the way. And I'll tell you what, when we get there, we will indeed make America great again. I love you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. 

Thank you very much, everybody. Wow. Thank you.  Thank you very much. What a privilege to be here with the incredible -- and I mean incredible -- men and women of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. And we set today, an all-time registration record. That's pretty good, right? Congratulations to you. Spending time with our veterans has been the greatest honor of this campaign. I want to thank commander-in-chief, Big John, and really, for the welcome. He has been so fantastic. From the time we walked in, he has been so fantastic. Also, many thanks to Bob Wallace, Auxiliary President Francisca Guilford, and for your incoming leadership. You have Brian Duffy and Colette Bishop, two terrific people.  Two terrific people. Before going any further today, I'd like to bring up on to this stage my good friend, Governor Mike Pence.  And by the way, Mike is the son of a soldier and the father of a Marine. Mike?

Thank you, Mike. And thanks again to everyone for inviting me to address you today. The veterans -- I love you, too.  The Veterans of Foreign Wars represent the very, very best of America. When I'm president, I pledge to work closely with your organization and your members to accomplish our shared goals. Our veterans are the bravest and the finest people on Earth.  The members of your organization have fought for the American flag, and boy have you fought, on distant battlefields all across the world. Your members have shed their blood and poured out their hearts for this nation like nobody else. Our debt to you is eternal.  Yet our politicians have totally failed you. Our most basic commitment to provide health and medical care to those who fought for us so bravely has been violated completely. The V.A. scandals that have occurred are widespread and totally inexcusable. As we know, many have died waiting for care that never came, a permanent stain on our government. Can you imagine the waste and corruption -- and I tell you we will find it and we will find it big league  when I become president in January 2017.  I've recently released a detailed 10-step veterans reform plan and we've worked on the plan with the chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee in the House and a really good guy who loves the vets, Jeff Miller.  He is a good man. We're going to take care of our veterans like they've never been taken care of before.  The other candidate in this race, you know, her name, crooked Hillary Clinton -- and believe me, folks, she is crooked -- has a much different view. She recently said of the V.A. scandal that it's not as widespread as it's been purported to be. It's like she's trying to sweep it under the rug, which by the way, politicians have done for years and years and years. It's going to be four more years of the same if she ever got in. But that's not going to happen.  Make America great again, you're right. Thank you. We know how she takes cares of the veterans. Just look at her invasion of Libya and her handling of Benghazi. A disaster. Or look at her e-mails, which put America's entire national security at risk. And to think, she was here yesterday. I guess she didn't do very well.   We're going to bring honesty back to government, and that starts with fixing the Veterans Administration. We will fix it. Here is my 10 step plan for veterans reform. One, I will appoint a secretary of Veterans Affairs who will make it their personal mission to clean up the V.A., and this person, man or woman, will be outstanding with an outstanding track record.  In other words, a person that can get it done. Number two, I'm going to use every lawful authority to remove and discipline federal employees or managers who breach their public trust. Three...  I will ask Congress to pass a bill giving the V.A. secretary full authority to remove or discipline any employee who risks the health, safety or wellbeing of a veteran.  I will appoint a commission to investigate all of the wrongdoing at the V.A., of which there is plenty, and then present those findings to Congress as the basis for reforming the entire system. Five, I'm going to make sure that the honest and dedicated people of the V.A., of which we have many, have their jobs protected and are put in line for promotion. When they do a good job, we are going to get them promoted, like they deserve.  I will create a private White House hotline. This could keep me very busy at night, folks. This will take the place of twitter.  Lot of truth to that. That is answered by a real person 24 hours a day to make sure that no valid complaint about the V.A. ever falls through the cracks.  Now, this is the tough part. This is the tough part. I will instruct my staff that if a valid complaint is not acted upon, then the issuer who brought it  directly to me, and I want to have it, will bring it directly to me and I will pick up the phone personally and get it completed and get it taken care of. That's a lot of work. We better do a good job because that's a lot of work.
But I want to have somebody, a real person and a really competent person in the White House with that hotline going. And if that person's not doing the job, I'm going to find out about it, and that's the best way to find out about it. That's called real life. That's called business. Instead of giving bonuses to employees for wasting money, we are going to create a new incentive program that rewards employees for saving money and improving the quality of care.  Our VSA  programs will be reformed to ensure that veterans are put in the front of the line for jobs in this country. They fought and they protect us, now we're going to fight  them; they're going to put right in the front of the line and these are our great people. And by the way, Governor Pence is right at the top of the nation in employment for vets. When he took over, he was number 32 or 38. Now he's right at the top. He has done an incredible job with respect to employment for vets. So Mike, good going and keep it going.  We're going to increase the number of mental health care professionals and increase mental health outreach to veterans outside of the system. So important. We're going to ensure every veteran in America gets timely access to top quality care including the best care in the world for our female veterans.  The veterans health system will remain a public system, because it is a public trust. But never again will we allow any veteran to suffer or die waiting for care. That means veterans will have the right to go to a V.A. facility or the right to see a private doctor or clinic of their choice, whatever is fastest and best for the veteran. There will be no more five-day waits in line. If you're waiting in line, you're going to go to a private doctor across the street, a private or public hospital across the street or nearby, and you're going to be taken care of quickly and efficiently. People are waiting in line five days, six days, seven days. And many are dying. With a simple procedure, they would live. And they're dying because they can't even get to see their doctor. So there's not going to be any more of that. And we will pick up the bill. It will cost us less money and the care will be amazing. OK? You have my word on that.  Come January 20, if I'm elected president, you're going to notice a change in the V.A. and in the whole entire government system, which is a mess.  All you have to do is try to get on an airplane and you'll see what a mess it is. A change in attitude and a change in results will absolutely take place so fast, right at the beginning. Government is going to start working for the people again. The special interests opposing our reform, and they do oppose it for their own reasons, and reform for America, the same people who have led us to one economic and foreign policy disaster after another. The global corporations and the media executives who oppose our plans, and they are opposing them strongly -- we need plans for change. And we want to keep the system in place, except for the section that's rigged, and that's a lot of it. We're getting rid of our rigged system. I started using that term a year-and-a-half ago, and now everybody's using it. This morning, I was watching one of the Democrats, who I've been talking about as a rigged system. He used the word "rigged system." I'm going to have to come up now with another word. It's very sad.  But the system is rigged, so badly rigged. And it's rigged against the veterans, too. That's why their message is that things can't change, can't change. With these people, they can't change. These are the same special interests who have driven the economy into the ground and who have created one calamity after another overseas -- horrible, horrible thought process. These Washington interests are telling Americans to stay the course. They're telling us that we can't fix our trade deals or we can't fix our V.A. or we can't fix our broken tax system, or we can't fix immigration, because they're benefiting from the status quo. They benefit. They don't want to change. We need change. They don't want to change. My message is the opposite. Things have to change. And they have to change right now.  Here is just some of the change we need. We need to change our tax, energy and regulatory policies to produce millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth and invest in our country and in our infrastructure, which is falling apart all over this country -- our roads, our tunnels, our bridges, our airports. Our infrastructure is that of a third-world country. Not anymore. And I'm very good at building. Remember that. And I build under-time and under-budget. Very important. You don't hear that from government very often. Those who seek to raise taxes and expand regulation will only weaken our country, hamstring our economy, and throw many millions more out of work. And as you know, Hillary Clinton wants to institute a massive tax increase, massive tax increase. And we're already just about the highest-taxed nation in the world. Our immigration system must also be fixed, so it lifts people out of poverty instead of throwing them into poverty, which is what it's doing right now. Our terrible trade deal must be renegotiated completely. NAFTA is a disaster. To keep jobs and wealth in America -- we're sending our jobs away. We're going to keep our jobs in America. And we're going to bring new jobs back.  We need to change our foreign policy to focus in defeating and destroying ISIS, a word you didn't hear last night at the Democrat convention. You didn't hear it. They don't want to talk about it. Because in a very true way, they really established ISIS because of weakness. The people in this room know better than anybody else or any other audience what I mean by weakness. But because of weakness, ISIS has been established. It's also essential that we suspend the refugee flows from Syria and other dangerous countries so we don't bring into the United States the same terrorism that our American soldiers are fighting overseas. We have to be smart.  Thank you. Hillary Clinton wants to bring in, if you can believe this, 550 percent more than President Obama. More. And Tim Kaine wrote a letter very recently asking for more than even Hillary wants. What are we doing? What are we doing? We have to be the smart country again, or we're in big, big trouble. Our depleted military must be completely rebuilt. Then from a position of strength and respect, America needs to extend our hand in friendship to foreign nations who want to be our friends, and we can't be taken advantage of by these countries that we work so closely with. Many of these countries are taking advantage of us, folks. They're taking advantage of us. We want to be friends, but they also have to be friends with us. Remember that -- something you've never heard from a politician.
We want a more peaceful future for our world. But peace will require new approaches, not relying on the same failed voices of the past. These are failed voices. And now they want another four years. And we need to fix the V.A., so we never break our sacred commitment to our veterans, never ever again.  We can do all of these things. We simply need to stop relying on the politicians who created these problems in the first place. They are not going to do anything. I call them all talk, no action. That's what they are. They are politicians. All talk, no action. We can't fix a rigged system by electing the people who rigged it in the first place.  Let's reject the doubters and the cynics, and choose instead to believe in ourselves and in our country. It's time to follow the example of our amazing veterans who work together across racial lines, across income lines, across all lines in unity of mission and purpose. Nobody does it better than our veterans.  Let them be our guide. It's time to believe in each other, and it's time again to believe in America.  If we do this, we'll truly, absolutely 100 percent make America great again, greater than ever, ever, ever before. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. 

Thank you, Mike. Thank you, everybody.  Who ?  Thank you, everybody . This is a great honor, great state. I have a lot of property  people in Virginia. Pay a lot of checks -- bing -- every night, every day; a lot of great success I've had in Virginia over the years. And we have just phenomenal stuff in Loudoun County, as you know, and we have down in Charlottesville and some other stuff. Tremendous, tremendous, beautiful property. Charlottesville is right next to Thomas Jefferson.  He was an architect. You know, he had great taste. He had great taste. He understood that's some of the most beautiful land I've ever seen. So I love Virginia. And we are going to win Virginia.  We're going to win Virginia.  I'm going to go over some of the statistics when Tim Kaine was governor. They're not pretty. They're not pretty. But before I do, I just want to say that Debbie Wasserman Schultz...  I always knew she was highly overrated. I always knew.  Not good. But she just got fired. They said, "Debbie, you're fired; get out, Debbie -- out, boom." Boy, they were . How about that for disloyalty, though, in terms of Hillary Clinton? In all fairness, because Debbie Wasserman Schultz has been so much for Hillary Clinton and  politicians, folks, other than Mike Pence, of course. He's great. But these politicians -- hey, look, look, look. So, there's no loyalty there. Right? There's no loyalty. None whatsoever. It gets a little heat and they fire her -- "get outta here, get outta here." She knew what was going on. Hillary Clinton knew what was going on. She knew everything that was going on. She knew it's a rigged system that Bernie Sanders never had a chance. OK? He never had a chance. And if you look at it, look what's going on, they're having a lot of people marching now, and a lot of those people are going to vote for us. I'll tell you right now.  A lot of them. And not even because they like me or they don't like me. Although I have to say, have you seen the polls that just came out?  Right? We had, like, the biggest bounce that anyone can remember. They said, "Well, if he gets out of the convention with no bounce, that will be a success." Did we have nine points or something? Ten points?  We're leading. We're actually leading in the polls.  And the CNN poll was so good, I may have to start liking them again. And I don't .  No, they treat me unfairly. But you know what's more important? The poll. But you know, the big poll, the big poll, that's November 8th. That's the poll we care about, right?
But look how disloyal crooked Hillary Clinton was to somebody that put her life on the line. I mean, she -- what she did in order to take advantage of Bernie Sanders and all of his supporters. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, what she did in order to make sure that the system, the rigged system stays intact and Hillary gets it, and then you see the e-mails. Can you imagine, they talk about religion. They talk about religion. Can you imagine if that was my e-mail? I'd right now be on the front page of every newspaper. It would be horrible. And they're trying to play it down. Well that wasn't so bad. That wasn't so bad. But could you imagine, seriously. There's such a different standard. So here's the story. Here's the story. So Debbie was totally loyal to Hillary. And Hillary threw her under a bus and it didn't take her more than five minutes to make that decision. Man, I don't want her covering my back, I'll tell you right now. It's true. It's true. Now the other thing I'm surprised at, you know it's nice when you're not reading speeches. Isn't it? Really? Because I can talk about current events. This stuff happened 10 minutes ago. You know if you're reading speeches, I see these guys. I dealt with a lot of them. I've actually been a very political person all my life. I've always been on the other side. But now for 14 months I've been doing this. And I like this side in a certain way better because we can do things better. They used to love me when I was just a contributor. I'd give millions of dollars. I was a contributor. I know, I like this better. I like being non-establishment better. But with Bernie, when you look at what happened, the thing that surprises me most is how he folded. He folded. I thought he was really hanging out tough, tough, tough. Then they find these horrible e-mails talking about his religion and is he Jewish and is he an atheist and what and that's not going to play well. Man that's rough. And that's not as bad as some of the other ones. And I said there's no way that Bernie Sanders shows up to make a speech. There's no way that he can ever endorse Crooked Hillary Clinton anymore right? There's no way. And today I see him trying to make the case. And his own people are out there booing. OK? They're out there booing. So it's pretty bad. Then I'll tell you, Hillary Clinton, I've been saying this for a long time, and I got it from Bernie Sanders. He said she suffers from bad judgment. Right? Bad judgment. She suffers from very bad judgment. Her instincts are bad, they're no good. Her instincts are defective. Her instincts are defective. But she's got, she's low energy. She actually is low energy. She'll go home, she'll take a nap for 4 or 5 hours, then she'll come back. No naps for Trump! No naps. I don't take naps. We don't have time. We don't have time. You ever see Hillary where she comes out and she'll read a teleprompter for a little while and then she'll go home; you don't see her for 3, 4 days. And then she comes back. And then they used to, I remember in Iowa they put like 3 or 4 people, really nice people in there sitting around a little table. And everyone's saying well I'd like to ask her a question, no, no, no, you're too tough. This is what we have. How do you think ISIS is going to react ? I don't think so right? I don't think so. Not going to be good. No. We have tough enemies out there. We have tough, mean, vicious, horrible, horrible people. These are horrible, horrible human beings. We need toughness folks. It's about time. We need strength. We need toughness. We need smarts. We need warmth. We need compassion. We need everything. We need everything. But we don't need somebody that goes home and takes naps. We don't need naps.
But what did surprise me was that Bernie was so soft on this. I really -- I was amazed, because I watched his speech, you know -- "We must vote for Hillary Clinton." I mean, the hatred he's got, why would he do that? He looks better if he didn't do it, to me. Hey, what do I have to do with it? I don't care. Whatever he wants to do. But could you imagine if what's taking place now with the Democrats took place in Cleveland? And by the way, I have to tell you, Cleveland did an amazing job. Thank you, Ohio. Thank you, Cleveland. What a job.  I spoke to the police Chief Calvin -- did a phenomenal job up there, but what we had -- and the Secret Service, working with the Secret Service. What a job they did. But Cleveland's a beautiful place. I mean, really I was so happy. We had no problems. They were trying to show -- I know they showed this one square. It was this big square and they had a few people. They bring the cameras in close, you know, really close, because they don't want to show all the beautiful grass, you know, with no people on it. And you know why? I'll tell you why, because people like our message. People like our message. They really like it. And if you look at Philadelphia -- I went to school in Philadelphia. I love Philadelphia. If you look at Philadelphia, what they're going through right now, it looks like a lot of people. It's 100 degrees there. And speaking of that, by the way, I don't know if you saw it. Did you know I went to the other room? So you have a second room, and then outside you have over 1,000 people. And it's 104 degrees out. No, think of it. And the first time I ever did it. I said, "Let's go -- let's go to the second room first." Right? That's the ante-room. But let's go because it's the overflow room. I said -- so I went in there. We surprised them. We were nice. But you know, we love these people. But you know what I also like? I don't have to do it later.  And outside, we have a lot of people. And I wish they'd let them in. The Fire Department won't let them in because of a fire regulation, which is very sad because they're outside. It's -- we have speakers out there. I think the speakers are burning up, folks. It is hot. I wish the fire marshal -- where's the fire marshal? Is he around here? Come on, fire marshal. If they could get in, fire marshal -- you know, you have doors that go right out to the outside. I promise there's nothing, like you don't have a problem. I feel badly. We have those people -- we have people standing outside. You could get a few more people inside. If they could, let them in. So, that's the way a builder would talk. OK? That's the way a builder...  So you had the firing of the head of the DNC, and that was a vicious firing. A lot of things happened. You had her firing. Hillary Clinton's total disloyalty was at play. It really was. People don't say that. They won't say that in the media. Oh, if I did something with Reince, can you imagine if I fired Reince? I wouldn't do that because Reince has done such a great job -- Reince Priebus. What a job he has done.  And I always used to say, for months now I've been saying, "I'll take Reince over Debbie." And everyone said, "Oh, but Debbie's a super star." I said, "So is Reince," and then it turned out that Debbie flamed out and she's gone. But the disloyalty was incredible. And I really mean that. Because honestly, whether you like her or not, she worked very hard to rig the system so that Hillary got in. It's true, right? It's true. No, it's true. She worked very, very hard to rig the system. Little did she know that China, Russia, one of our many, many friends came in and hacked the hell out of us. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what they're hacking? I guarantee we'll find the 33,000 e-mails.
Why did Hillary get rid of her middle name? Hillary? No, but why did she get rid of it? Hillary rotten Clinton. Rotten Clinton. Hillary rotten Clinton, right? Maybe that's why. It's too close. No, no. It's too close. It's too close. You think Mike Pence would say this? I don't think so. By the way, did I do a good job with Mike Pence? OK.  Him and his family. What a high-quality person. You know, you have to vet people, right? And we vetted Mike and they came back, and these are killers. And they came back with many pages on certain people, OK? Many pages. I -- I'd like to write a book.  Many, many pages. With Mike, they came back with like nothing. He's like the most perfect human being, this guy. I said, "Mike, did you ever do anything wrong in your whole life?" "No, I don't think so."  He is -- where is he? He's the best guy. That guy is great. I love this guy. I love him.  I love him. But you know what I really like about Mike? So listen to this. To me, a very important thing is her bad judgment. Now, whether you like her choice, Tim Kaine -- nobody even knows who he is. No.  He's done a terrible job for Virginia. I assumed -- they said he picked a -- you know, he got picked because of Virginia, because Virginia is very important and I'm doing very well here. Hey. Hey, I'm employing a lot of people here and they don't employ anybody. I spent a lot of money in Potomac Falls, Sterling, that area. I mean, I spent a lot of money. We have great, great things happening. Next year, we have the senior PGA championship coming. Thousands and thousands of people will come into Virginia and spend a lot of money. Thank you. I love you too, darling. But...  But just think of it. So Hillary Clinton has -- almost 50 percent of the people want a progressive. OK. We don't have to like that, but that's OK. That's where they are. They want to give everything away and raise your taxes. That's what happens. No, no. She will have a tax raise. By the way, I have the largest tax cut of anybody running for office, Republican or Democrat. OK?  But Hillary Clinton -- Hillary Clinton will have a tax cut that is not there. It's going to be a tax cut times 20 in reverse, like a rocket ship. We have the biggest tax cut proposed, I guess, in the last four years. And it's -- we're going to get it through. At least we're going to get most of it through. I'll tell you what, I'm going to try and get all of it through. But we have -- and it's policy, it's, you know, put out there. That doesn't mean there's not a little negotiation, because we're going to have to negotiate. But we're going to have it go. Hillary Clinton's going to have one of the biggest tax increased in the history of our country because what she's proposing, you're going to have to pay for. It's very simple. Very simply. You know, maybe she'll -- you know, after she gets rid of Bernie, get rid of all this stuff. That doesn't help you, by the way. But what she's proposing, she needs to have a massive, massive tax increase. Nobody every talks about that. Do you notice she never talks about who's going to pay for it and how they're going to pay? But just statistically, she's going to need a very major tax cut. But here's something to me that's very interesting. Fifty percent of that party is Bernie Sanders, almost, and they're very passionate. And that's a much more passionate side. Her people, they fall asleep. OK? They fall asleep. They're watching her. With Bernie's people, they're really out there. They -- say what you want about Bernie Sanders, he got it on free trade. He got it. Freed trade. Now I'm -- I'm totally -- I'm a free trader. I believe in free trade.
You know, they get it all wrong because they just don't say it properly. But I want smart trade. I want -- I want to trade with other countries. But I don't want to lose $500 billion a year  with China. Thank you China, we love you very much. But we're not going to lose $500 billion. And I don't want to have a trade imbalance with Japan where they send us millions of cars and we send them some beef. And then they send it back. And then we send some wheat, wheat. They send cars we send wheat. Sounds like we've got to send a lot of wheat right? The trade imbalance is massive. And with Mexico we have an unbelievably big trade imbalance. So they kill us at the border. They kill us. They're killing us at the border. And we have one of the biggest trade imbalances. And what happens? What happens? I'm not even including the drugs right? The drugs are pouring across. You know I won the state of New Hampshire. And I got very, very friendly with the people in New Hampshire. I'll never forget them. Because that's an amazing group of people. And I said, what's your biggest problem? They said heroin pouring across the southern border. I said heroin? New Hampshire? Because you look at New Hampshire it's so beautiful, with the lakes and the little beautiful roads and the trees and the forests. And I said you don't have heroin, I said you have, he said Mr. Trump you have no idea. It's one of the worst areas for that. It comes pouring across the southern border. I said, you know what? If I win I'm going to sit, I'm going to fix that problem. I am going to fix that problem. I'm going to fix that problem. And one of the ways, I appreciate that. You know I always like to say if I win because honestly life is a very strange thing and I don't want to be accused by them of being arrogant. So I'll say if. But it better be when or I'm going to be very angry at you folks from Virginia. From Virginia. But the folks in New Hampshire and you're having the same problems. But they're having it for whatever reason disproportionately badly. Heroin is pouring across the border. And it's going, a lot of it, it's going all over the country by the way. Everybody's got the problem. You buy it for less than a candy bar. And our youth is being poisoned and plenty of other people. But our youth is being poisoned by this stuff. Heroin, heroin. And what we're going to do, thank you. What we're going to do is first of all the Border Patrol Agents endorsed me, 16,500. They've never done that before. And their job is easier now without Trump. Their job is easier without Trump. Because you know, right now they just stand and people go by. These are great people. I got to know them very well. The Border Patrol Agents want to do their job. It's a much tougher job, probably a much more dangerous jobs when you stop people and say sorry folks, boom go back. But that's more dangerous than saying, we can't do anything. It's called stand back, stand back and leave them alone. Let them walk right in. How stupid are we? How stupid are we? OK? So I spoke to them when they endorsed me. So I said, let me ask you: a wall, how important? They said Mr. Trump, it's very, very important. Very, very important. And they know. They know. See I just saved a million dollars. Somebody else would go out and hire a consultant who knows nothing. They'd come in from Harvard they'd spend about a year at the border. They'd learn nothing. They'd then write this 2,000 page report that nobody will read. They'll charge you $1 million for the report. And you have no idea what just happened.
As opposed to saying, like I did with the Border Patrol, is a wall good? They said very good. They actually used an interesting expression; they said it's a vital tool to turn things around. It was a very interesting expression. They didn't say great, bad. They just said, "It's a vital tool, Mr. Trump, to turn things around." Especially the drug traffic, because it's very tough. And we can build that wall so easily. And by the way, Mexico is going to pay for that wall...  ... just because. They're going to pay for the wall. And I've got great -- we got great marks on the -- on the speech the other night. And everyone did, everybody did so great. We had such -- by the way, I have to say, the Republican National Convention was such a tremendous success. It was so great. I mean, we had a couple of people that I think probably destroyed their careers, but who knows.  But honestly -- no. But honestly, that was such an incredible success. And look at what's going on in Philadelphia. That was such a beautiful deal. The city of Cleveland was great, the law enforcement was unbelievable. We had no riots, we had no nothing, it was unbelievable. I'll never forget it as long as I live. It was unbelievable.  And I made a speech -- and I have to tell you, because I figured this wouldn't happen because if I made a speech -- if I gave the Gettysburg Address as given as good as anybody could possible give -- I figured, you know, you always get -- you always . I got great reviews on this speech. I got great reviews. We got standing ovations. Some people said, well the speech was a little long. That's because we had 26 or 27 minutes of like standing ovation, we had applause. And I had a great time doing it because I'm talking about something that I love, we're in a movement folks, this is a movement. This isn't just -- I love what we're doing together, right?  I love -- I love what we're doing together. I love it. And what really -- what I have to say is this. So, Hillary Clinton has bad judgment. She shouldn't have picked this guy, big mistake, because he is the exact opposite what all of the Bernie people . Now, if he got 2 percent of the vote or 5 percent of the vote or 20 percent of the vote, it's -- but you know what? He almost beat her. If the system wasn't gamed, if the system wasn't gamed, he would've beat her. He would've beaten her. Now think of this. So instead of picking somebody, and you don't have to go with Pocahontas, you don't have to go that far -- who by the way, who hasn't done anything. She's the worst -- she is the worst Senator in the U.S. Senate. You know, she's got a fresh mouth, other than that, she's got nothing going. She's has got -- she has done nothing in the U.S. Senate, but you don't have to pick her. But you could have picked a liberal person and we understand it, we could live with it. And you know, she could have had party unity. Instead, they have thousands and thousands of people going crazy because she didn't pick somebody representative, she didn't pick somebody representative of what's going on. Let's get -- look, again. She's got bad judgment. Whether it's Libya, whether it's Benghazi, whether it's at night with the calls, with the calls, everybody's calling. The only call she answers is her friend calls, she picks that one up, but she doesn't pick up the calls for help. She's got bad judgment. Bernie Sanders said, she's got bad judgment. She's got bad judgment when it came to picking a Vice Presidential candidate for that side of the party.  I actually just asked Mike Pence -- I said Mike, do you think she's going to be forced to change because honestly. Now, I wouldn't pick him, I wouldn't pick him for a different reason, though. You know why I wouldn't pick him?
So, Mike Pence of Indiana has done an unbelievable job. A triple-AAA bond rating, so many different things, job creation, top in virtually every category, right towards the top, at the top. Listen to this. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor of Virginia, plus he's not very popular. I thought that I would see polls saying he's at 85 percent and Trump is going to lose Virginia. I'm going to -- people don't even like the guy. And  weird little dude there. I don't know what's going on with him. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor of Virginia from 2006 to 2010, the unemployment rate of the state more than doubled. So I immediately went back to my statistician. I said, "Listen, do me a favor? Will you please check it." He came back. He said, "Hey, maybe he's wrong, but more than doubled." This is your great governor, right? Now, Governor Mike Pence cut the unemployment rate from 8.4 percent to less than five percent, quickly.  Since 2013, Indiana's gone from 31st in the nation for veterans unemployment, to second, and it's going to go first. OK?  Veterans unemployment. During Tim Kaine, that's the guy that bad judgment, crooked, Hillary Clinton, bad judgment, such bad judgment. We can't have another president with bad judgment. We can't do it.  During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor, the state of Virginia lost 60,000 manufacturing jobs. Now, Indiana gained 30,000. Now, it's a different time and different everything. He was, you know, so I'm not comparing -- they're not -- because they'll say, well, one was here and one was there. But I'll tell you, if Mike Pence or me was running Virginia, we'd do great. This guy did a lousy job. You know why? He's a political hack. That's why. He's a political hack. Look what he's done. Look what he's done. He's always been in politics. He likes politics. He wants to be in politics always. OK. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor of Virginia, it averaged almost no GDP growth. And Indiana, as you know, is doing great. I mean, think of it. Here's a beauty. OK. Nobody is going to vote for Tim Kaine when you hear this one. OK? Tim Kaine. I never even heard of this guy, but that's OK. Less than a week after Tim Kaine became governor of Virginia -- one week -- he proposed a nearly $4 billion tax increase -- $4 billion.  Including a tax increase on people earning as little at $17,000 a year.  He tried to pass transportation reform. He failed, whereas Mike Pence had tremendous . I mean, the whole thing is ridiculous. So a $4 billion tax increase his first week. Do we want this as a president? Now, you know, look, hopefully we don't have to worry about it. I will say this, Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton -- these are my statisticians; they're great -- signed the agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization. Don't forget he did that. But Bill Clinton signed something that was the worst trade bill ever in the history of this country -- OK? -- in the history of this country: NAFTA. That was Bill Clinton. People don't realize.
I'll tell you a little joke. See how hot it is, everyone? Everyone's sweating and soaking wet, right? Here's the difference. I wouldn't pay the hotel bill. I'd say we're in a hotel, we're in a ballroom, and you know what? These are grown companies. We're in a ballroom. And if we're in a ballroom, it's not supposed to be so hot that everybody in the audience is using as a fan. So what they do is they turn the air conditioning down because they save money. So then, I would not pay them. And you know what I do? I pay my bills so fast with somebody good. With somebody average, I pay them OK. With somebody great, a lot of times, I give them bonuses. But here we are in a ballroom and I'm like -- I feel like I'm in a sauna, OK?  Right?  Right? So I don't know what hotel this is, but you ought to try turning on the air conditioning or we're not going to get you paid . These people .  Is -- am I right? It's hot.  Just so you know, I'm really good at this business. You make a lot more money if you own a hotel and you let people suffer and don't turn on air conditioning. You make a lot more money. You would be surprised at how much it costs, but this is ridiculous. And -- so then, there'll an article. "Donald Trump Refuses to Pay the Bill." Of course.  And you know what? The smart people say Trump is smart. The other people would say, "Isn't that terrible." OK? I think the ballroom and the people that own this hotel should be ashamed of themselves. All right. So look.  Look. So Virginia lost one in three manufacturing jobs since the Bill Clinton bill. Hillary supported China's entry into WTO. Roanoke, which is a beautiful place, by the way, has lost one -- and I've been here many times -- has lost one in three manufacturing jobs, OK, since the Clinton disasters. Last year, the U.S. trade deficit with TPP countries -- I mean, I could go into this -- I could read this stuff to you. It gets a little boring after a while, but it's all the same thing. We have -- Hillary Clinton wanted to approve TPP, that's Trans-Pacific Partnership. And then I announced that I'm against it. And then she heard me make in a speech. This is what I've heard. A friend of mine told me. And I basically said the various reasons, including monetary manipulation, currency manipulation, et cetera, why it's no good, why it will be another NAFTA but maybe even worse. Can't be worse, but it'll be as bad, OK? Different countries, but it'll be as bad. And she heard me. And she said, "He'll kill me in the debate." So what happened is she all of a sudden came out against TPP. But as sure as you're sitting there, she's going to approve TPP. If she won, she will approve it. She'll make a change. She'll make a comma. She'll say, "Move that comma. Now, I can do it." OK. Folks. Six-thousand pages of material that most people haven't read. It is a disaster. Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. You can't let it happen. We will never let it happen. I will never ever let it happen.  And I don't want to make deals with many countries; I want to do one-on-one deals, one-on-one. You've got to see this deal. It's like a fancy jigsaw puzzle. Lines  going here, here, there. So if one of the country misbehaves, you can't do anything because you're so locked up into this very complex agreement. And believe me, it's just like Obamacare. Thousands of pages and nobody in Congress read it, and now it's a disaster. And we will repeal it and replace it with something fabulous. OK? All right?  But -- but we're going to have something that's going to be very special. And I have to tell you, I appreciate you all being here and I really wish -- I appreciate it, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  And I appreciate the folks in the room next door, which is almost as big as this and it's packed also.
And even more than you folks, I appreciate the people standing outside in 104. They're dying. They're dying.  Although I venture say that they're more comfortable than I am right now. It's probably -- I think it's actually cooler outside than it is in this damned ballroom. Ridiculous.  Ridiculous. But you know what? I'll tell you. You know what I love? Look at this room. It's packed. You know what I love? And the other room is packed. What I love? Nobody left. Not one person. I always watch the doors. If I see doors starting to open, people pouring out, I usually stop. But that never happens with me. Never, ever. But I stop. Nobody leaves. Because you know what? We're in this together. We're in this together. This is a movement. So Time magazine just did an another cover. I talked about it. You saw the one from the back of my head. Right? It's pretty full back there. You know, could be better. Could be better, but not bad. But a picture from the back of my head. The guy was standing right over me with a camera like this. I studied that picture very closely. I didn't read the story, but I did study the picture. You know, I think that's number five or six that we've had. So I think I've had two in my lifetime, and five or six in the last few months where, you know, we had this incredible thing going on. And they called it a movement. And Bill O'Reilly calls is a movement. He's never seen anything like it. He said in his professional career, in his whole lifetime he actually said, this is the single greatest political phenomena that he's ever witnessed. And Brit Hume said it, and a lot of people have said it.  And I really mean this. It's not about me. It's about you. There's -- I'm a messenger. There's a group of people in this country that's massive. You know, they used to call it a silent majority. I don't use the term. It's a noisy majority, because we've had it. We've had it with the Iran deal. We've had it with our depleted military. We've had it with no borders.  We've had it with education where we're ranked right near the bottom. We're doing horribly. We've had it where they want to essentially abolish your Second Amendment. You have no protection for yourself. All right? We've had it.  And by the way, the NRA endorsed me and they're great people, 100 percent. And the evangelicals -- how many evangelicals to we have in here?  You better get out and vote because you didn't vote for Romney, and you better get out and vote for me. You know, we have the Johnson amendment, where Lyndon Johnson, who was very powerful, put in an amendment where basically our pastors, our ministers, and all religions, they don't have the right to speak up. And I had -- I had a meeting -- I was telling Franklin Graham, who's a great guy, I was telling Jerry Falwell Jr., who is a great guy, great guy. I mean, so many. We had a meeting where we had 50 to 60 pastors, ministers. And they were saying, "We love you." And they were praying. And it was like this incredible scene. And I said, "OK, well, folks, can you endorse me?" "Well, we can't do that." "Why?" "Because we'll lose our tax exempt status." I said, "Why?" Now, nobody brought this up to me. They were living with it. Nobody was going to go fight it. I said, "Why do you lose your tax exempt status?" "Well, we're not allowed to speak." And I said, "Wait," and I looked into it. I said, "Whoa." And that was passed by the ultimate politician, Lyndon Johnson. I mean, it's not like we're dealing with the pope. This was Lyndon Johnson -- smart, tough guy, but we're smarter and tougher.
But look, that was passed by a politician because he had problems with some of the churches in Texas where they were going after him for good reason. And I said, "Wait a minute, folks." Now, we put in our platform that we're going to work like hell to get rid of the Johnson amendment because...  ... because your representatives, ministers, pastors, rabbis, they have totally lost their voice. And don't kid yourself, that's what's happening to religion in this country because you see the same numbers that I see. So I think this -- if you're evangelical, if you're Christian, if you're Jewish, if you have religion, you better go out and vote for Trump because this is going to be the last chance you're ever going to get to get this thing going. OK?  Thank you. Thank you.  So I said in my -- I will say this, I said in my speech in the other night and I meant it, I thank the evangelicals because I want to get these tremendous voices. They said, "Trump can't win South Carolina, right?" And I said, why? I have a tremendous piece of ground. I won with the evangelicals. I won all over with the evangelicals because they get it, they're smart and they understand. They know I'm not perfect. I'm not perfect, but they know I love them and they know I'm going to fight for them better than somebody that is perfect. I'm going to fight for them. I'm going to fight for other religions. I'm going to fight. I'm going to fight for people to be able to speak. And actually when they said this to me, I was in an office building very high up and I'm looking down. I said to these powerful pastors, these power men and women, they're just powerful people, just tremendous strength and energy and conviction. They were in a whirlwind, it was beautiful, their voices. I said, "but that means that you are less powerful than those people walking down the street." I pointed to the street, "they have a right to talk and you don't. You don't have your right to talk." That's our religion. That's our religion.  In my case, I'm Presbyterian, I'm a Protestant, but that's our religion. And my minister, who I like a lot, doesn't have the right to speak. We're going to end that folks. With one chance, we're going to have it. So you better go back to your churches and you better get everybody to vote because four years ago, they didn't get up. They didn't vote for Romney, and to this day, a lot of people understand it. Though, some people do understand it.. Frankly, you better get up and you better vote. It you vote - if you think about it, if you take Christians, Jewish, some of the Catholic, take the religions, it's bigger than men and it's bigger than women. It's bigger than men. You know, men are 50 percent, women are 50 percent, the religion is like what 80 percent. If you get up and vote, we're going to get rid of that. And we're going to free up great people to go and speak what they want to speak about, and they should be able to speak.  So just a couple of things. I would like to bring Mike up. Just a couple things, we are going to strengthen our military. Our military is really depleted, it's not good.  I didn't want to go into Iraq. We got there. I said, "Keep the oil." They didn't keep the oil. These people don't know what they're doing. You know, in the old days, you're in a war, to the victor belong the spoils, right? Today, we get nothing. Trillions of dollars in costs. Thousands and thousands of lives lost, we get nothing. Iraq is a disaster. The Middle East is worse now than it was 15 years ago by a factor of 20. If we would have done nothing, we would have been much better off. We have to build up our military. We never needed it so much. We never needed our military so much.
So we're going to take care of our country. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to take care of our people. We're going to make America great again. And I have to tell you, one of the really good decisions, because I laugh when they say, "Do you think Mr. Trump likes Governor Mike Pence?" I love this guy. He's great. He's great. And everybody does. I'm getting such great marks and such great reviews. Unlike Hillary. Did I ask you before? Do you think she'll change? He looked at me and said no way, because it's hard to do, right? She may be forced -- she may be forced to change. He actually -- I'll tell you -- Tim Kaine stands for the exact opposite of all of the Bernie Sanders people. I mean, it's ridiculous what she did. Again, bad judgment. So I'm going to have Mike say just a few of the final words, and I'm going to sit down and watch him. He is some great person. He's got some wonderful family. And we are having such fun going all over the place. And so Mike can finish off, and I want to thank you, folks. Thank you. 

If you guys want to ask a couple of questions, fine. You go ahead, Mike.

Go ahead.

We're going to work. One thing we have to do for the youth, and it's a question I get asked, Mike, more than any other question. We have young, fantastic people going to college and they're choking on their debt. OK? They're choking on debt. They haven't started life yet, and some of them have given up before they start it because they see no way. We're going to work on a plan and we're working on it now so that we can help young people get through college, and not die . I mean, some of these kids, what they're doing is incredible -- the massive depression that's going on because they see no way of ever being able to pay it back. Now, part of that's going to be jobs. But we're working on a plan now to take care of youth with respect to college debt. We're going to work on a very good plan. We have to. We have to.

Do you own the hotel? 

I bet. 

One-hundred percent. We have to stand by Israel, 100 percent.  Yes? Yes? Hello.

These are usually the toughest questions. 

He knows. He knows. Jacob, that wall will go up so fast and be so big and powerful and as good-looking as we can make it that your head will spin. OK? Believe me. It's going to go up fast. Thank you.  

Go ahead. How about over here? Go ahead. Sure.

Congratulations. 

Cut your taxes and no more crazy regulations. OK? 

Big , right?

All right? The regulations are out of control. You know, Mike -- so I've been all over the country and I would've always said taxes would be like the biggest thing. If I had my guess, I would say that people are more angry about regulations than the fact that we pay among the highest taxes in the world.

So we'll cut the regulations. OK?

OK. How about one more -- one more question?

One more.

Who's got a good one? Who's got a good one? Go ahead. Give him -- I like that question, actually, right? Give him a mic because that's such a great question. Go ahead.

Wow. Are you a minister or a pastor? He is. Thank you very much. Now, I feel better, he is. So ladies and gentleman, I just want to thank you. That's a great way to end actually. I just want to thank you for being here. It's so important that on November 8, you have to get out and vote. If for no other reason, remember this, remember this, strong defense, strong borders, but remember, Supreme Court Justices. We're going to be appoint, and Mike will be absolutely right there with me. We'll be picking the best right off that list. We are going to be appointing anywhere from two to five, it could even be. And if you put the wrong people on, you're back to Venezuela. This is Venezuela. So let me just tell you, if you can, get your friends, get everything you have to do on November 8. Please get out to vote. It's going to be tough. It's going to be tough because it's a stacked decked. It's a rigged system against all of us. The reason I won is because we had such an outpouring of love. I mean, the numbers were so big, they couldn't do anything about it. Let me tell you, you have to get out on November 8, and you have to vote. You have to get your friends, and your family, and everybody out to vote. OK, thank you all very much. We love you. We will be back.  Thank you. Thank you.  Thank you, everybody. Thank you.

So, it's been 235 days since crooked Hillary Clinton has had a press conference. And you, as reporters who give her all of these glowing reports, should ask yourselves why. And I'll tell you why. Because despite the nice platitudes, she's been a mess.
You look at what's happened with ISIS, which isn't even mentioned. You look at what's happening with law and order, they don't even mention our police. They mention everybody but our police. They don't have an American flag on the dais until we started complaining and then they ran up with two very small little flags, one that we saw. So you know, I put myself through your news conferences often, not that its fun. 235 days, no news conference for Hillary Clinton. You oughta check it out because there's a lot going on. Her great disloyalty to the person that rigged the system for her, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, she totally rigged it. Bernie Sanders never had a chance. And total disloyalty, it's like you're fired, get out, fast. The e-mail situation I call it the double e-mail situation, both very serious. What was said in the last ones to the DNC was horrible, absolutely horrible. If I would've used language like they used about religion, about race, about everything else that they discuss in those e-mails I would've had to run and hide and probably drop out of the race. With her, everything's just fine. So just ask yourself why she doesn't have news conferences. And honestly, the reason is because there's no way she can answer questions because the job she has done is so bad. When they talk about change, I noticed they have change. She's been there for 30 years. Thirty years. There's no change. It's going to be the same, it's going to be an extension of Obama. In my opinion, worse. She lied about TPP. She was for TPP, she saw me on television knocking the hell out of it because it's a horror show, it's going to kill all our jobs, it's going to be almost as bad as NAFTA, maybe worse which her husband signed, by the way, which destroyed this country, destroyed manufacturing in the United States. And I'll do something about it, that'll be so renegotiated. And by the way, yesterday for the first time she said she wants to renegotiate trade agreements. First time, yesterday. Well, because of me. She also saw me talking about TPP and currency manipulation and currency devaluation. And she heard it and she said wow, she can't win that subject in a debate. So all of a sudden she goes and she goes against TPP, her vice president is one of the biggest proponents of TPP and now he's going against it. And Bernie Sanders was right, he was against it. They will go for TPP and vote it in very shortly after the election if she wins, which for the sake of our country we all hope and I hope that she doesn't. They will vote it in -- just mark my words, hopefully we don't have to worry about it -- but she will vote. She'll change a comma, she'll change a paragraph of the 6,000 page document that nobody's even read on our side. Just so you understand, the other countries know every word, every paragraph, every sentence, every single comma and period. We don't even read it, our country. Because we're led by stupid people. so she saw me talking about TPP, she realized that she couldn't defend it, her special interests are pushing her hard because she's bought and sold by the special interests. They're pushing her very hard and so she said she's against it. The day she gets in -- which hopefully will never happen -- she will approve or shortly thereafter TPP. And that will be another disaster for job in our country, OK? So why don't we start off any questions? Yes, sir?

It's just a total deflection, this whole thing with Russia. In fact, I saw her campaign manager I don't know his title, Mook. I saw him on television and they asked him about Russia and the hacking. By the way, they hacked -- they probably have her 33,000 e-mails. I hope they do. They probably have her 33,000 e-mails that she lost and deleted because you'd see some beauties there. So let's see. But I watched this guy Mook and he talked about we think it was Russia that hacked. Now, first of all was what was said on those that's so bad but he said I watched it. I think he was live. But he said we think it was Russia that hacked.
And then he said -- and this is in person sitting and watching television as I've been doing -- and then he said could be Trump, yeah, yeah. Trump, Trump, oh yeah, Trump. He reminded me of John Lovitz for "Saturday Night Live" in the liar  where he'd go yes, yes, I went to Harvard, Harvard, yes, yes. This is the guy, you have to see it. Yes, it could be Trump, yes, yes. So it is so farfetched. It's so ridiculous. Honestly I wish I had that power. I'd love to have that power but Russia has no respect for our country. And that's why -- if it is Russia, nobody even knows this, it's probably China, or it could be somebody sitting in his bed. But it shows how weak we are, it shows how disrespected we are. Total -- assuming it's Russia or China or one of the major countries and competitors, it's a total sign of disrespect for our country. Putin and the leaders throughout the world have no respect for our country anymore and they certainly have no respect for our leader. So I know nothing about it. It's one of the most farfetched I've ever heard. Yes, Jon ?

I never met Putin, I don't know who Putin is. He said one nice thing about me. He said I'm a genius. I said thank you very much to the newspaper and that was the end of it. I never met Putin.

I would treat Vladimir Putin firmly but there's nothing that I can think of that I'd rather do than have Russia friendly as opposed to the way they are right now so that we can go and knock out ISIS together with other people and with other countries. Wouldn't it be nice if we actually got along with people, wouldn't it be nice if we actually got along, as an example, with Russia? I'm all for it and let's go get ISIS because we have to get ISIS and we have to get them fast. You saw what happened with the priest, it's only going to get worse. And Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more people from that region into our country and we have no idea who they are, where they come from, where their documentation is, it's only going to get worse and it's going to start getting bad in our country. We're letting people come in by the tens of thousands. You see what happened to the French priest. A friend of mine, he said he was going to France, like three, four months ago. I saw him yesterday. I said how'd you like France. He said I wouldn't go to France. I wouldn't go to France. Because France is no longer France. France is no longer France. They won't like me for saying that but you see what happened in Nice, you see what happened yesterday with the priest who was supposed to be a spectacular man. France is no longer France and this world better be very careful and they better get very tough and very smart and they'll never do it with Hillary Clinton. And by the way, in terms of change, she's been there for 30 years. She's been doing this for 30 years. What she's going to go all of sudden things are going to change? She's bought and sold 100 percent by special interests and lobbyists. Yes, Tom ?

None, none.

Because it's under order. And I'll release them when the audits completed. Nobody would release when it's under -- I've had audits for 15 or 16 years. Every year I have a routine audit. I'm under audit, when the audits complete I'll release them. But zero, I mean I will tell you right now, zero, I have nothing to do with Russia, yes?

I don't know, I don't know. It depends on the audit. It depends on the audit, not a big deal. By the way, just so you understand, I've released my papers, 104 pages of documents. I built an unbelievable company, tremendous cash, tremendous company with some of the great assets of the world. You've seen it. You were all very disappointed when you saw it actually but that's OK. Far, far great than anybody ever thought. I have a great company. I built an unbelievable company but if you look there you'll see there's nothing in Russia. And as far as the tax returns, as soon as the audits complete, like any lawyer would tell you, Greta Van Susteren she was going over it a while ago, she's a lawyer. She said well no lawyer would let somebody release a tax return when they're under audit. It's a routine audit. I've gone through audits, which I think is very unfair, for 15 years. I have friends that are very rich and never get audited. I'm audited every year. Maybe that's because of politics, who knows.

I'm not going to tell Putin what to do. Why should I tell Putin what to do? He already did something today where he said don't blame them, essentially, for your incompetence. Let me tell you, it's not even about Russia or China or whoever it is that's doing the hacking. It was about the things that were said in those e-mails. They were terrible things, talking about Jewish, talking about race, talking about atheist, trying to pin labels on people -- what was said was a disgrace, and it was Debbie Wasserman Schultz, and believe me, as sure as you're sitting there, Hillary Clinton knew about it. She knew everything. Debbie Wasserman Schultz could not breathe without speaking and getting approval from Hillary Clinton. Couldn't breathe. And you saw that. It also showed that it was a fixed race, but I've been saying that long before I saw the e-mails. It was a rigged race. It was totally rigged. And Debbie Wasserman Schultz rigged it for Hillary Clinton, and the sad part is, Bernie Sanders has, to use an old word that I use on occasion, he's lost his energy. He wants to go home and go to sleep. But he's got a lot of people that walked out last night. Now, hundreds of people walked out of the Democrat Convention last night. I didn't even hear about it. Nobody showed it. I didn't see it on television. You people don't talk about it. The Republican Convention was incredible. I hear I had one of the biggest bounces in decades. Like, some people are saying nine points. In fact, a poll just came out ten minutes ago, "Los Angeles Times", Trump 47, Clinton 40. And the reason is that people are sick and tired of Hillary Clinton.

Why do I have to  get involved with Putin? I have nothing to do with Putin. I've never spoken to him. I don't know anything about him other than he will respect me. He doesn't respect our president. And if it is Russia -- which it's probably not, nobody knows who it is -- but if it is Russia, it's really bad for a different reason, because it shows how little respect they have for our country, when they would hack into a major party and get everything. But it would be interesting to see -- I will tell you this -- Russia, if you're listening, I hope you're able to find the 30,000 e-mails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press. Let's see if that happens. That'll be next. Yes, sir... 

OK. Sure. Two big questions. The minimum wage has to go up. People are -- at least $10, but it has to go up. But I think that states -- federal -- I think that states should really call the shot. As an example, I live in New York. It's very expensive in New York. You can't buy a hot dog for the money you're talking about. You go to other states and it's not expensive at all. Now what it does is puts New York at a disadvantage if the minimum wage is up, companies move out and things, bad things happen. At the same time, people have to be taken care of. But what I'm really going to do on the minimum wage -- but it has to go up. Now, Bernie Sanders lied. Bernie Sanders said in his speech the other day that Donald Trump wants the minimum wage to go below $7. I said, where did he come up with that one? That one is just like Joe Biden lied today. He said that Donald Trump wants to carpet bomb -- he was on television -- he said, Donald Trump wants to carpet bomb the enemy in the Middle East. Now, that was Ted Cruz that said that. That was not Donald Trump. I mean, he's not a very bright guy, but that was Ted Cruz that said it. And he said it with such surety -- Donald Trump wants to carpet bomb -- I never said I wanted to carpet bomb. That was Ted Cruz. You remember Ted Cruz said it? You will confirm that, I think. Go ahead. So I would like to raise it to at least $10, and what I'm going to do is I'm going to bring jobs back to this country so that people can start working again so that the $10 and the $15 and the numbers you're talking about are going to -- literally, they're going to be peanuts compared to what people can make in the country, because I'm going to bring jobs back from Mexico, which is booming, booming. I have a friend who builds plants and he's a great builder of plants and I was with him the other day -- great guy. He builds massive plants, for automobiles, for computers, for anything. That's what he does. I think he's the biggest, but certainly one of the biggest.
And I said, how's it going? He said, unbelievable. Oh good, that's good news. The country's doing well. No, the country's not doing well, but Mexico is unbelievable. The plants I'm building in Mexico, I've never seen anything -- it's the eighth wonder of the world. And he's not happy. He's an American guy. He'd rather build them here. But he said it's unbelievable. That's what's happened to our country. Because we have leadership that doesn't know what they're doing.

Yes we're going to be listing; yeah we're going to be giving a list of those territories. And if you come from those territories we have extreme vetting. And we're going to have extreme vetting anyway. Look we have people coming into this country who have very evil intentions. And we have people whether in San Bernardino or whether it's the World Trade Center or whether it's a lot of other things, and you look all over the world and you see what's happening. You look at Orlando, how bad was that? And that was horrible. That was going after the gay community it looks like. We can't let this happen. We cannot let this happen. We cannot let people come in. Now Hillary Clinton likes to up it. Her running mate Tim Kaine, who by the way did a terrible job in New Jersey. First act he did in New Jersey was ask for a $4 billion tax increase and he's not very popular in New Jersey. And he still isn't. What? I mean Virginia. The first thing he did, the first thing that Tim Kaine did, he asked for a $4 billion tax increase. And he's not very popular. So let me just tell you, and I went all over Virginia and I was there the other day. And I thought he'd be popular. He's not popular because he asked for tax increases. Big tax increases in Virginia. Big. And also the unemployment went up, I think it doubled or close to doubled during his tenure. But what he wanted to do is very strongly and he's on record, he wanted to have even more of the people from that region of the world come in than Hillary Clinton wants. And it's unacceptable. OK. Yes? 

I saw that. 

Right.

I do have a reaction to the prosecutor in Baltimore who indicted those police officers, I do. I think she ought to prosecute herself OK? That's my reaction. I think it was disgraceful what she did and the way she did it. And the news conference that she had where they were guilty before anybody even knew the facts. And I give a lot of respect and a lot of credit to those police officers who probably could have made a deal. I give a lot of respect, a lot of credit that they stuck it out. And you had victory after victory after victory. And she had no chance, don't forget she prosecuted the best case, what she thought was her best cases first. She should prosecute herself. She should be held accountable.

Well, that was a bad case to prove it. That was a bad case. I mean if you're going to do that, it's OK because you have to, you know, there are times when police officers behave very badly. But you have to get the right time. This was not one of those times. And I think that she is a disgrace to the world of prosecutors for what she did. Yes ma'am?

Yeah.

I have a great relationship with Governor Pence. We spent the last three days together. He was absolutely my first choice and I never wavered despite the press. The press was saying, and it was interesting, I spoke to him at 11:05, him and his wife, and I told him that I was going to be choosing them if I'd be lucky enough for him to accept. And he accepted. And that was it. For me that was it. But right around that time you had the attack in Nice. And I was going to have a news conference either the following morning or the next day. And of course I had to delay the news conference because there was attack, a horrible attack, horrible. In France. And I delayed the news conference and everyone said, oh he's having second thoughts. I never had a second thought in my life. It was such a lie. I mean so many lies in the press. But it was such a lie. And he has been so great. Honestly he's been even better than I thought OK? Better.

I think everything's is out of date. We have a whole new world. When I said that NATO, to Wolf Blitzer, is obsolete, I got attacked. Three days later people that study NATO said you know Trump is right. You know what? We have a lot of things that are out date because they're 20 and 30 and 40 years old.
NATO, you know this isn't a country from 40 years ago. Today we have a different threat. We have a terror threat. And we have an ISIS threat. And by the way, ISIS isn't even mentioned. It's not even mentioned during the Democratic Convention. And everyone's talking about it. The reason they can't mention it is because they grew it. Go ahead.

I would -- Katy, I would renegotiate so much of everything. I'm going to renegotiate our trade deals where we're losing with everybody, Katy. I'm going to renegotiate our military deals where we're protecting countries and they're not living up to the bargain. They're not living up to the bargain. And everyone agrees with me, except for the media. And the media never says that. I like NATO, just so you understand. I like NATO. I like the concept of NATO. It is somewhat outdated because it doesn't cover terror the way it should. I've been saying this for six months now. A couple of months ago, front page, Wall Street Journal, "We are going to cover terror," they announced  somebody. I think NATO's great. But it's got to be modernized. And -- and countries that we're protecting have to pay what they're supposed to be paying.

Yes?

I am a person that believes in enhanced interrogation, yes. And by the way, it works.

I'll tell you what. Let me say it once again. Let me say it once again. OK? Many countries, including the NATO countries, some of which I think you have five that are current that have paid what they owe. And they can afford to pay this. It's not like they can't afford it. They just see us as a soft touch. You know, in business we say somebody's a soft touch. I don't know if I've been called a soft touch, but maybe I have sometimes. But in business, they call them a soft touch. They haven't paid us. OK? I want them to pay. Excuse me. I'm not saying anything. I don't talk. I'm not like Obama where he tells you everything he's going to do -- we're going to go and do this; we're going to go and do that. I don't talk. But they're going to pay. No, no -- yeah, it sends a signal. You know what signal it says? It says we're going to pay. You know, somebody said, "but we have treaties." I said that's right. And in the treaties, they're supposed to pay. They're going to pay. And they will pay. They will pay. 
Yes?

We're going to have a whole policy on that over the next three weeks. I'm going to be doing a big thing on that. 
Well, I've been doing very well with the Hispanic community. I mean, really well. I mean, the -- the poll numbers are going up very high. I think we had one recently 35 or 36. But I'm going to have a whole -- we're going to have a news conference on that over the next three weeks. So, and I want to just tell you because these polls cover it, so L.A. Times, 47-40; CNN, way up. They're all way up. Biggest -- they say the biggest bounce in memory. Because today I heard a dishonest guy on television say, "Well, Trump didn't get much of a bounce." So, you know, I have to at least say. Jeremy, go ahead.

I don't think he respects Clinton. I don't think Putin has any respect whatsoever for Clinton. I think he does respect me. And I hope I get along great with him. It's possible that we won't, Jeremy. I hope that we get along great with Putin because it would be great to have Russia with a good relationship. Right now, we don't have a good relationship. Putin has said things over the last year that are really bad things. OK? He mentioned the "N" word one time. I was shocked to hear him mention the "N" word. You know what the "N" word is, right? He mentioned it. I was shocked. He has a total lack of respect for President Obama. Number one, he doesn't like him. And number two, he doesn't respect him. I think he's going to respect your president if I'm elected. And I hope he likes me. Yes? Yes, sir?

Yes, sir. 
But let me finish with Jeremy. Go ahead.

President Trump would be so much better for U.S.-Russian relations. You can't be worse. Hey look, when I was a young men studying history and studying all of these things that I've always found fascinating, one thing that I've always heard is you never want to do anything to unite Russia and China. Well, they're united now, in a true sense. They've never been closer. They're selling oil to China. We forced them into this position. 
No, wait a minute. 
No, I'm not going to be an adversary. No, not at all. I have tenants from China. I have the biggest bank in the world from China paying me rent. I mean, I have great relationships with China. I'm not blaming China for getting away with murder. I'm blaming our leadership is incompetent. We don't know what we're doing.
I don't blame -- I respect China. Hey, if China can get away with trade deficits every year of hundreds of billions of dollars -- if they can get away with that, my hat's off to them. I have no problem with China. I have a problem with our incompetent leadership allowing that to happen. And I believe that Hillary Clinton is even more bought and paid for than Barack Obama. I think it will get worse. It's going to be four more years of Obama which is unacceptable to a lot of people, you see that. But I believe that Hillary Clinton will be worse, than Obama. Yes?

That's right.

That's right, I'm going to be doing something over the next four weeks, very much so.

No, I'm prepared to say we're gonna have a great plan. One of the things I think because I've traveled all over the country and I'm going -- you know where I'm going, I guess you all know, I don't have to say. But I'm going to Toledo  and I'm going to different places today and I've met so many people. This is such a great country, these are such great people. one of the saddest things I see are college students that work so hard, that go to colleges, good colleges, they're good students, they do a great job. Number one, they get out, they have no jobs. Because our jobs are going to Mexico, they're going to China, they're going to Japan, they're going all over the place. They're not coming here. Just like my friend who builds the plants but he doesn't build them here, much. And the saddest thing I see is these students are leveraged debt up to their -- up to their neck. They can't breathe, they're scared, they're so scared they have leveraged their entire life. They have loans. And I have to tell you, the colleges are viewing the students as just a con to it. Because the students get government money, passes through but the number gets higher and higher. Because college costs are out of control, because the colleges say what difference does it make? If you take a look at the salaries being paid, you take a look at what's going on with the colleges. Because all of this is a pass through and the students are a con to it. So the colleges are costing so much money. We are going to help the students. Maybe that doesn't fit beautifully within the Republican framework. But I told this during various times to lots of different people and nobody has a problem with it. We have to help our students. Our students are under tremendous pressure to a point where it's making them sick. Our students are under tremendous pressure, we have to help our students. And I'm going to have a plan over the next four weeks. 

Everything's on the table, you'll see. Everything -- it's a very important -- it's a very important subject. Yes, ma'am?

I think my message is resonating because they have confidence on me at the border, if they don't want people pouring into our country. Likewise, they have confidence with me on ISIS, not only in terms of getting rid of them but also in terms of keeping them out of our country because I will not have people come into our country who want to do damage to our people. I think they have a lot of confidence in terms of my bringing back jobs because I see Carrier and I see Ford and I see all of these companies leaving and going to Mexico like there's nothing to it. And then they make their product, they sell it back to the United States, no tax, no nothing, we get nothing except unemployment. And I think people see that. I can tell you I mean I'm like a pollster myself when I'm in front of these massive audiences, one of the things that gets constantly -- you people know because you're there -- the biggest applause is a repeal and replacement of Obamacare. Because Obamacare is a disaster. In Texas, going through BlueCross/BlueShield they just announced a 60 percent increase. On November 1st, you're going to have new numbers come out for Obamacare, having to do with increases. President Obama is trying to get it moved to December. Because it is election-defying. It is going to be a massive number, the biggest number ever in our country's history for health care. It's going to be announced on November 1st. I just asked the press, don't let him do that. Obamacare is a disaster, people are dying with it. It's a disaster and everybody knows and it's going to fold, anyway. In '17 unfortunately -- if I'm president -- I mean I've got to take over this mess. It's going to fold, anyway. But repeal and replace Obamacare, people like it. They like the fact that I'm going to protect the Second Amendment, they like the fact that I'm going to rebuild our military which is very depleted. Those are the things that are resonating. And they don't feel Hillary Clinton can do it. John , go ahead, John .

No, I have nothing to do with Russia, John . How many times do I have say that? Are you a smart man? I have nothing to with Russia, I have nothing to do with Russia. And even -- for anything. What do I have to do with Russia? You know the closest I came to Russia, I bought a house a number of years ago in Palm Beach, Florida. Palm Beach is a very expensive place. There was a man who went bankrupt and I bought the house for $40 million and I sold it to a Russian for $100 million including brokerage commissions. So I sold it. So I bought it for 40, I told it for 100 to a Russian. That was a number of years ago. I guess probably I sell condos to Russians, OK?

Of course I can. I told you, other than normal stuff -- I buy a house if I sold it to a Russian. I have nothing to do with Russia. I said that Putin has much better leadership qualities than Obama, but who doesn't know that?

Of course not. I own the Trump organization. Zero, zero. Go ahead.

I am.

I did.

I did. Because I would love to see a woman become president of the United States. But she would be so wrong. And even women say that. Women don't like her. She would be so wrong. Look, Hillary Clinton is a disaster. She's been a disaster. And even the story told by her husband last night, he left out the most interesting chapter. I won't get into that. The chapter that I really waited for, because it was pretty boring, the chapter that I waited for, I never heard. And he left it out. Look, Hillary Clinton's a disaster. I'd love to see a woman become president and it'll happen, absolutely. But I think it would be bad for women if it were Hillary Clinton. Yes ma'am ?

Yes, I do.

But I have spoken to about many times and I speak about it all the time and the police have to be very careful, they have to be very, very well trained. I speak about it all the time, in fact I mentioned the most recent death, excuse me, I mentioned the most recent deaths in Louisiana and in Minnesota. I speak about it all the time. It's a real problem because if the police do 100,000 great jobs and they have one, either a rogue policeman or a cop who was poorly trained or did a bad job, you see that incident on television for weeks. It's a real problem. You don't see the good work that they do but if they make one mistake out of 100,000, out of more than that, it's on television night after night after night. The police in this country do an amazing job but likewise I agree and I do mention that all the time. Yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Oh, go ahead, go ahead.

Yes.

No, but they seem to be, if it's Russians. I have no idea. It's probably not Russia. Nobody knows if it's Russia. You know the sad thing is? That with the technology and the genius we have in this country, not in government unfortunately, but with the genius we have in government, we don't even know who took the Democratic National Committee e-mails. We don't even know who it is. I heard this morning, one report said they don't think it's Russia, they think it might be China. Another report said it might be just a hacker, some guy with a 200 I.Q. that can't get up in the morning, OK? Nobody knows. Honestly they have no idea if it's Russia. Might be Russia. But if it's any foreign country, it shows how little respect they have for the United States. Yes, ma'am.

Yes.

Well, and  the biggest thing is number one we have to stop by keeping people out because these people, they've got something bad going on up there. That's something really bad going on. And then people in terms of Islam and radical Islamic terrorism, a term that our president refuses to use, I can't he's still not using it. He's still not using it. And she doesn't want to use it other than I forced her into maybe using it. She said she will use it but so far she didn't.
She'll probably use it tonight. Like the American flags, as soon as we put out a thing they ran a couple of American flags up in the stage, it was a disgrace. You had a room with a massive stage without flags. I think this -- I think that the people in the community know what's going on. Whether it's in a mosque or whether it's in the community and they have to report these people. When you look at San Bernardino, people knew -- many people knew what was going on. They had bombs lying all over the floor. They had bombs on the floor. I mean, this isn't -- you walk into somebody's house, there are bombs lying on the floor -- I think there's a problem there. You got to report it. And by the way, David Hinckley should not have been freed, OK? David Hinckley was just released -- John Hinckley -- I think that John Hinckley -- excuse me, John Hinckley, should not have been freed. I just heard about it. 

That's up to the President. Let the President talk to them. Look, here's the problem. Here's the problem, Katy . Katy, here's the problem, very simple. He has no respect...

Well, they probably have them. I'd like to have them released.

No, it gives me no pause. If they have them, they have them. We might as well -- hey, you know what gives me more pause? That a person in our government, crooked Hillary Clinton -- here's what gives me pause. Be quiet. I know you want to save her. That a person in our government, Katy, would delete or get rid of 33,000 e- mails. That gives me a big problem. After she gets a subpoena! She gets subpoenaed, and she gets rid of 33,000 e-mails? That gives me a problem . Now, if Russia or China or any other country has those e-mails, I mean, to be honest with you, I'd love to see them.  

That's the most ridiculous conversation. He never had the -- Don Jr. told me -- let me just tell you. Let me save you a lot of boredom.

Mike Pence will play a big role, but I just want to tell you about John Kasich. I never spoke to him about being vice president. We don't have good chemistry together. I have never spoken to him about being vice president. I would never pick him to be vice president. There was never a conversation, and he has a habit of doing things like this where he says things that may be a little bit shaky. He never spoke -- Don Jr. would never -- and that was so long ago, I didn't even know I was going to get the nomination at that point. Just so you understand, I would not have picked John Kasich, wouldn't be the right guy. I mean, for that to have gotten out, that was so ridiculous. And then, I was going to put him in charge of national and worldwide policy. So what's left for the president? I think you know me better than that. That was put out by him. He's a nice man, John Kasich, he's fine. He's fine. I would never have chosen him. Now, I did speak to various people and I actually got acceptances from many people. There are some people that called me that very much wanted to be vice president, but I picked a man that I have a lot of respect for and Mike Pence is doing a great job. Let me just explain -- I never asked John Kasich to be vice president, nor would I. And by the way, I'm leading in Ohio by three points.

It probably has. It probably has. Our government is so weak on this stuff. It probably has. Possible. I mean, I have a lot of checks and balance. I have a good system, I guess. I'm not an e- mail person, myself. I don't believe in it, because I think it can be hacked, for one thing. But when I send an e-mail, I mean, if I send one, I send one almost never. I'm just not a believer in e-mail. A lot of people have taught me that, including Hillary. But honestly, it could be, maybe it's hacked. Who knows?

Yes, but my message wasn't dark. My message was optimistic, because we're going to fix the problems. Go ahead.

OK.

No basis. No basis. Look, John, I didn't have to do this. When I did this, believe me -- you see this incredible resort. It's one of the great in the world. When I did this, I could be here enjoying myself. I don't have to be with you guys. I didn't need this. I have places that are the best in the world, OK. I could be doing other things. I'm doing this because we're going to make America great again. I'm doing this because when I looked at the Iran deal, which was incompetent -- when I looked at what's going on with jobs being torn out of our country and going to Mexico and China, what's happening with China. And with all of this, with ISIS, with our military being so badly depleted where we have old fighter jets. We have to take parts from museums and from graveyards. When I look at all this I say I sort of have to do it. You know this country's been great to me. I'm giving back. That's all. Now as far as running a campaign, I guess it's probably not typical. But they said that against, you know when I ran there was 17 people, a total of 17. Governors, Senators, Ben Carson who's a fantastic guy, capable people. Wait a minute. Everybody said, oh he can never win because look what he's doing. He's giving a talk to 5,000 people in New Hampshire instead of going to everybody's house and having dinner. And then I won New Hampshire. And then I won you know 38 or 39 states. And won by the way, not by a little bit. Won with the highest vote in the history of the Republican Party. So just...

OK but John but the point is this, so it's a different kind of a campaign. But it's what I think is good. I think it's good. I think it's working here too.

Well, when Joe Biden says that I want to firebomb the enemy, which was on television this morning, or carpet bomb. He used the term carpet bomb. When he makes the statement that Donald Trump wants to carpet bomb, I never said that. That was Ted Cruz that said that OK? That was Ted Cruz, wasn't me. When Sanders, and I think a lot of his people are going to come to me because of trade. But when Bernie Sanders makes a statement that I wanted to go lower than the minimum wage, lower, it's a lie. So I have a choice. All my people say don't respond to it, it doesn't matter. I say to me it does matter. It matters. When people tell lies, politicians who tell lies very well, that's what they do, that's why they're politicians. But when politicians tell lies, and I'm lucky in a sense because I have a big microphone. In other words I can say that Biden lied when he said that. Or I can say that I didn't say that, Bernie Sanders. And you guys know that I didn't. In fact he was criticized by people that fact check for saying it because I never said it. So it's nice to be able to, President Obama said a year-and-a- half ago, Donald Trump will never be president. Today on "The Today Show" he said, this is democracy. A little bit different. Little bit different.  David, go ahead Dave.

You'll have to see it in the polls David. You know what my positions are. You'll have to see it at the polls.

Yeah go ahead. 
David my positions are down. You ask the question every single time. I give you an answer. My positions are down. Take a look. Go ahead.

Yes I did.

We wanted to, yeah, I don't know what he said. But we wanted...  
Excuse me, listen. We wanted to; we were doing Miss Universe 4 or 5 years ago in Russia. It was a tremendous success. Very, very successful. And there were developers in Russia that wanted to put a lot of money into developments in Russia. And they wanted us to do it. But it never worked out. Frankly I didn't want to do it for a couple of different reasons. But we had a major developer, particular, but numerous developers that wanted to develop property in Moscow and other places. But we decided not to do it. 
Yes ma'am go ahead.

He did say that.

Well, I just said sort of said that. He just said that. He said it this morning, anything's possible. I think I'm going to win. I think people are sick and tired of incompetence. They're sick and tired of having politicians leading them down the tubes. Whether it's taxes, whether it's debt, whether it's any one of 15 different things. And that's why. I mean I think I'll win the election. I think you'll see that in the polls. All right a few more questions. Go ahead John.

I hope your arm's OK.

Well, it's a tradition but I don't do things that are traditional. But I have great support from Israel. I will back Israel 100 percent. I would like to go there. But I have great relationships as you know, to the people in Israel. And by the way, Obama in my opinion is the single worst thing politically speaking that's ever happened to Israel. He has been a disaster for Israel. 
I don't know. I don't know. I haven't set my schedule yet. It could happen.

No, I think we -- it's possible we have. But I'm not -- I'm only interested in winning. Once I win, I'll get along great with foreign leaders, but they won't be taking advantage. I mean, the problem we have with foreign leaders, whether it's China, Russia, or anybody, they don't respect our leadership. And certainly in the case of China, they take tremendous economic advantage of us -- tremendous, to a point that is hard to believe. I'll get along great with the leadership. And we'll do well. Yes, ma'am, in the back?

No, no. Excuse me. In the back?

We'll be looking at that. Yeah, we'll be looking. Go ahead.

Federal.

Right.

I'm not making it a part. But at some point, maybe people will change their minds, but as of right now, I'm not making it a part. OK. 
Yes, ma'am? Go ahead.

Who said that?

Who?

I think President Obama has been the most ignorant president in our history. His views of the world, as he says, don't jive. And the world is a mess. You look at what's happening with the migration, with Syria, with Libya, with Iraq, with everything he's touched. He has been a disaster as a president. He will go down as one of the worst presidents in the history of our country. It is a mess. And I believe that Hillary Clinton will be even worse. Go ahead.

Oh,  just said that? Many polls show that you are winning? I can't believe it. Are you Katy Turek  of NBC? It's a disguise. Go ahead. 

OK. Well, . 

Sure. Well, you've been asking me a lot of questions for a lot of times. I've turned out to be right. I turned out to be right on NATO. After I said that on NATO, NATO changed their whole program because of me. Excuse me, Katy, Hillary Clinton said yesterday she's going to start renegotiating trade deals. She never said that in her life. She said it yesterday only because of me. I'm the one that's prepared. President Obama when he became president, he didn't know anything. This guy didn't know a thing. And honestly, today he knows less. Today, he knows less. He's done a terrible job. I think I'm very prepared. Now, with that being said, I've been a businessman all my life, but I've been watching it. I've been seeing it. I've been feeling. And as you know, I've been very much involved in politics from the other side. I understand politics or I guess I wouldn't be here. I mean, I beat a lot of very talented people.

I do. I have great foreign advisers. And you have a list. And I gave you a list. And the other day, as an example, General Quinn and General Flynn, and we have so many -- we have so many. As an example, I had a meeting three or four days ago, and I'm going to do a report on it, with seven or eight very, very talented advisers. Now, with all of that being said, a lot of people want the people that are doing it now; people that have certain names. Look at the mess they've gotten us into. They said, "Have you spoken to so and so?" Well, I said, but he was in favor of the war in Iraq many years ago, which I was not in favor of. "Have you spoken to this one or that one?" I said, they were all -- look at the job they've done. So a lot of the people that you think are good because you know their name or because you see them on television, I don't think are good. Because look at the end result. The end result is our country is a mess. The Middle East has never been worse. Had we done nothing with the Middle East; had our presidents, with an "S," gone to the beach and relaxed, we'd be in better shape than we are right now. All right, Tom. A couple more. Go ahead, Tom.

Yeah.

Well, we'll have to see. I mean, that's my opinion. That's my opinion. We'll have to see. I have a real problem when Hillary Clinton, who gives open access to a phony server, is allowed to get these briefings. How does Hillary Clinton get a national security briefing when she's been probably hacked, when so much of her information, the director of the FBI said it was essentially negligent. It was negligent. Now why are they giving her briefings, why are these people with great knowledge of the inner workings of our country and our security, why are they giving Hillary Clinton briefings? Because it's going to get revealed. I mean her number one person, Huma Abedin, is married to Anthony Weiner, who's a sleazeball and a pervert. And I'm not saying that, I mean that's recorded history, right? I don't like Huma going home at night and telling Anthony Weiner all of these secrets, OK? So how can Hillary Clinton be briefed on this unbelievably delicate information when it was just proven that she lied and that her server shouldn't have had it and that they're missing 33,000 e-mails and that's just the beginning. So I don't think that I know at some point, they're going to be calling, they're going to want to brief me, but I'm not a talker about this stuff. I don't think that it's safe to have Hillary Clinton, in light of what just happened, and in light of what we just found out, I don't think it's safe to have Hillary Clinton be briefed on national security because the word will get out.

No. He's not going to run for mayor. Oh, Don ? He's not going to run for mayor. Don  has no attention of running for mayor. But he did a great job the other night with his speech. Because he made a good speech, everyone says he should run for mayor. You know why? Because we have a Democratic mayor who's horrible, he's doing a horrible job, de Blasio. But Don  is not going to run for -- he has no interest in running for mayor.

Yes. 

Unbelievable what he said. I think it's disgraceful. Hillary Clinton, because of me, said that TPP is not going to happen. But we all know it is going to happen if she won. Terry McAuliffe said with a wink that if Hillary gets in, she's lying and it will happen. And there is nobody closer, I know this for a fact, there is nobody, including her own husband, closer to Hillary Clinton than Terry McAuliffe, OK? Go ahead.

Oh I don't know what he said, Jon , I really -- Anthony Weiner's -- look, look, look -- Anthony Weiner is a proven loser. I mean the poor guy, he's locked up in a room. They lock him up in a room, they don't let him out. I don't know what Anthony -- my son doesn't want to run for mayor. He has no intention of running for mayor. And besides that, as a Republican, you have a very tiny sliver in Manhattan, as you know, and in that area. It's almost impossible for a Republican to win. So, and my son likes to win, but my son has no intention of running for mayor so let's just put that to bed. Go ahead.

Yes, in  very sad. Not .

Yes, I'm looking at it. I actually want to find out what causes it. It's a problem in many areas, OK? Yes, go ahead.

Well, they shouted -- you know what was interesting. Yesterday I made a speech in front of the great veterans as you saw, and it was very well received, she was there the day before. And when I started talking about Hillary Clinton, the veterans who saw her 24 hours before, started screaming, "Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock her up." They also screamed that, as you know, during the speech I made. The big speech.
And I said, "Don't do that." Now, I didn't do that for any reason. I really -- I didn't like it. And they stopped. Not one reporter said that I said that. They all said -- they started screaming "Lock her up! Lock her up." I said, "Don't do that." Nobody reported that I said that, because it's dishonest reporting. You do agree I said that, right?

OK. Well, why didn't somebody report that?

No, I think it's -- I think it's a shame that they said it, but a lot of people would say that should happen. OK, one more question, yes -- yes, ma'am, go ahead.

Well, Doral is great. And Doral -- I think I have over 1,000 Hispanics working at Doral, and they're doing a great job. Yes, ma'am, in the yellow, go ahead. Yellow.

Excuse me. Yellow.

Who?

No, I don't think it has any impact. He's been very bad -- her running mate has been very, very bad on employment. And all you have to do is go to Virginia and speak to the people of Virginia, he has been so bad. I figured when she chose him, he was very popular in Virginia. They don't like him. They don't like him. It has been very close races, and his polling is very bad. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I think it's time for Hillary Clinton to do a news conference, because it's almost a year now and it would be interesting to see how she does. Thank you all very much.

Might as well tell him to have a good time. He has done one bad job. OK, thank you, everybody.

Thank you. Whoa. Whoa. This is amazing. This is amazing. USA. Thank you. Thank you.  This is incredible. You know, I had a press conference before and one of the questions was, "Mr. Trump, what are you doing? You are not supposed to be campaigning today. You have broken all of the rules. What is going on? They are having their convention. Sir, you are not supposed to be campaigning." Well, guess what, folks? We are campaigning. We are going to make America great folks. We are going to make America great again. Remember that.  And they said the same thing, you know, during the primaries. We have 17 people, very talented people. And they said the same thing -- this will never work because Trump comes in, he has these big rallies, and then he leaves. And I'm supposed to have dinner, like, with two people, spend the entire evening; they go to another . And they said, well, why do you do that? I said well, I do it because I can get to rallies. The other people can't get to rallies. It's very simple -- it's very simple.  But that worked. I have to thank two people that have been unbelievable and great friends: Tom Marino, congressman. Where's Tom? Get up here, Tom. Get up here.  And Lou Barletta, get up here -- oh, there it is -- Lou, Lou, Lou.  All right. They have, like, big fences to cross. Just a minute. OK. We all know what you look like. But they have been so great right from the beginning, and I wan to thank -- I want to thank you both. I want to thank you both. Thank you. I mean it.  So, it's been an amazing -- yeah, sit down. Come on. We've got plenty of time. Well, we have nothing but time. It's a nice place.  This is very nice. First of all, Mike Pence has been amazing.  And you know, one of the reasons, and this is 100 percent, one of the reasons I chose Mike was because Indiana under his leadership has done so well. It's done so incredibly -- AAA bond rating. They have really low unemployment, one of the top few states. Everything's good, even for the veterans in terms of employment, I think it was 32 or 38. No, that's not the good number. That was when he got into office. And when he left, right now, basically they were number two in the nation and he wants it to be number one. That's incredible. That's veterans being employed by some of the folks in this room. So that was great.  Now, when we won New York, you know, we had these incredible victories. What do I know about politics? But we do have a lot of common sense, all of us, don't we? We know. We know.  We know a lot. We know a lot. I had a run that was incredible. It started with New York. And New York -- and you know what's nice? I won New York...  ... Queens, Queens, you're right. Queens. He knows. What are you doing here? What are you doing here?  But we had this incredible period of time, and we just kept winning, winning, winning. But I went to New York and we had a massive landslide victory -- won just about everything. And in my victory speech, I don't even know why I said it -- but I said, "And we're going to" -- this is in the middle of Fifth Avenue, OK? -- "we're going to put the miners back to work." I said that.  I don't even know why. And by the way, that includes the steelworkers, and we're going to take a lot of the regulations off of gas, because gas is big, and they want to close you down. They want to close the mines down. They've been closing mines down. It's sad. It's sad. But little did I realize that shortly thereafter I'd go to a place called West Virginia. And did they love Trump. Did you see those numbers?  And Hillary Clinton -- crooked Hillary Clinton, she's really crooked.  So Hillary Clinton -- thank you.   

You know what we're going to do? Even better, we're going to beat her on November 8th. We're going to beat her. OK?  That's even better. OK? That's what we're going to do. Got to get out there. We got to vote. You got to get out there. We got to get out there. But do you remember -- so Hillary gave a press conference in an area where coal and the different things that we all love wasn't so important, right? And she figured she'd make the statement and it wouldn't get back to West Virginia. It got back to West Virginia and it got back to Pennsylvania and it got back to Ohio and it got back to a lot of places that she didn't want to hear that message. She said, "We're going to put the coal miners and we're going to put the coal mines out of business." OK? No good. And we had an event. It was at a big, massive place -- it was beautiful -- in West Virginia and the place was packed. It has to be 10,000, 12,000 people and outside, they had at least double that number. And it was love. And I went and saw some of the miners and I said, "So tell me, would you ever think of like leaving and going to another place and maybe doing something else instead of this?" They said, "Mr. Trump," and I understand this so well, "we love mining. We love doing it. This is our livelihood. Our fathers, our grandfathers -- this is what we do. We do it so well. We don't want to do something else." And I said, "I love that." I love that. I can understand it and I love that. Love it.  So hang in, because we're going to put you back to work. We're going to put you back. It's going to be a beautiful thing to see because these are great people. These are amazing people. And so many from this area, but so many from this state. And I went to school in Pennsylvania. I love Pennsylvania.  You know, I love Pennsylvania. And we're just going to -- you know, when I look at -- I look around and I see what happened, I -- I didn't need to do this. I had a very nice life.  Beautiful family, beautiful business. I built this incredible company. All this, and I just couldn't stand -- you look at the Iran deal, you look at so many -- everything is wrong. Everything is wrong. Take a look. I'll tell you what. Let's talk. Take a look at the convention that's going on right now. They don't honor -- think of it. They don't honor our police, they don't honor our law enforcement. We started complaining they had no American flags on this massive stage. They had no American flags. They forgot. They forgot to put up -- now, we had a lot of flags.  Somebody said, "I can't see you, Mr. Trump. There are too many flags." I said, "That's OK. We'll leave it that way." But we had a tremendous success and we got a balance  that, according to one of the networks, that it was one of the biggest balances  that anyone's seen.  Now, I give a lot of credit for that to my family. My family, Melania and Tiffany...  And Ivanka and Don and Eric. And they talk about these people. They say, "Stars, stars." I'd rather have those five stars much more so, those five-plus one, by the way.  But they did an amazing job. And I have one of the stars with me. Should I introduce you to Eric? Eric. Eric. Get over here, Eric. Come here.  E. 
Wow, look at this crowd. This is amazing. Well, you know, guys, I had to come today. I spent so much of my youth in Scranton, in Coverdale, and Waverly. So many of my best friends in the world -- I went to boarding school in Pennsylvania for five years and I just love this state. I know this area as well as anyone and I just had to be here today. We have so many great friends and thank you. You know, we just came off a convention and we had a great time. It was honor to be up there and to talk about my father. We had the greatest time. We are so proud of him and we are going to make America great again. We are going to win this in November. We are going to make this country great again. Thank you very much guys. D. 
That is my 6"6 boy, and he is a good guy. He is a good guy. He loved this area, he really did. He loved the school he went to. He went to the Hills school. He loved it and he did well. He has been doing well. I am very proud of my children. I am very proud of my children. So, President Obama today was interviewed on a show, man look honestly, if he did a great job as President, I wouldn't care if he was a Democrat, Republican or conservative I don't care. If he did a great job as President, I would be so happy and so would you. I would be so happy. It hasn't worked out that way. It hasn't worked out that way. We are scoffed at all over the world. We are looked down upon all over the world. We are not respected anymore. We were talking about Putin today -- no respect, no like, no nothing. You know, wouldn't it be a great thing if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be a good thing? That would be a good thing.  Not a bad thing. It would be a good thing. Wouldn't it be a good thing if we could make deals, trade deals, with China, that instead of loosing hundreds of billions of dollars a year and rebuilding China's roadways, and airports, and tunnels; that we did much better than we are doing right now? You know, I am a free trader. I believe in it, but you need smart people to make great deals. We don't have the right people. We are being ripped off on by every single country we do business with on trade. Every single country we do business with.  We have people negotiating our deals that are political hacks. These are deals that are so big -- you know, you could take a midsize country and the trade deals are bigger than the massive deals you read about with corporations. These are bigger deals. There is no bigger deals than the deals with China with trade. It's a one way street. They take their product, they flow it in - by the way, for your steel workers, they dump more steel in this place because they're going to put you out of business. You are already mostly out of business, but they want to put you out of business. We are going to start making things again folks. We are going to start making things again, that includes steel, but we will start making things again..  A friend of mine who's a manufacturer -- he's a great manufacturer. He's not a very political person, which is probably good for him. But he's a great manufacturer. And he calls me up and he goes, you know, it's really sad; I work so hard to get into China; I can't break in. He can't get in. It's so hard. Then he finally gets in and he has to pay massive taxes on everything. And they wanted to open up plants in China -- we're not going to let you do this anymore. And I'm not even blaming China. I think they're doing the right thing for them. But they're killing us. They're killing us. And it's not going to happen anymore, folks; not going to happen anymore.  And the problem is it's a one-way street. We pay tax. They don't take our goods. They make us build like crazy over there. You look at Boeing. They order 300 planes. They end up having to build a massive place over there. They devalue their currency. They're grand, grand masters. They're the greatest in the world ever. Japan's good. They're all good. We're not good. We don't know what's happening. And it's so easy to stop. Because they send their goods in and they send them in without tax. And not going to happen. So here's the story, here's the story. I won the state of Indiana, where I got to know Mike Pence.  And one of the reasons I won -- well, maybe the biggest reason was Bobby Knight came out and he said, you know, we want Trump. Right? Look at that. We want Trump. But Bobby Knight was so great. But one of the big reasons I won Indiana was because Carrier Air Conditioner announced -- actually about a year before, but I kept talking about Carrier, Carrier. I didn't know I'd need -- you know, it was going to be good for me. It turned out to be good for me. Because every time I made a speech in Indiana, I'd have so many of these 1,400 people that got laid off. They were in Carrier for years; some of them 30, 35 years. Good people. And one day, and if I didn't have the cell phones -- oh, those cell phones where they take the pictures. They had -- it was all over the news. Somebody was taking a picture of this sort of mid-level manager saying, listen, we're going to fire everybody, and we're moving to Mexico. Just another case.  But you know what? It's much more effective when you can see it. Let's say that same thing happened, but we didn't have the picture of these people that were devastated. They were devastated. This has been their job for many years and it's a good job. You know, the jobs we have aren't good jobs anymore. They're bad jobs. And even the opponents say they're bad jobs. So I go to Indiana and I've been talking about Carrier for a long time. It got worse and worse. And many others -- this is just -- in all fairness to Carrier, this is just one of hundreds and hundreds of companies that are moving out, in this case going to Mexico. Many of them go to Mexico, but in this case going to Mexico. So they announce they're closing. They're going to fire everybody. They're going to move to Mexico. They're going to make their air conditioners. They're going to sell them over here. And that's it. Not anymore, folks. Not anymore. Not anymore.  Not anymore. So now when that happens, and this can pertain to all of you. We're going to keep your companies and we're going to bring a lot of companies back. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're going to bring our coal back. And we're going to have clean coal. It's clean coal. And we're going to have coal. And that gas is going to be just a beautiful thing, OK? Because they want to regulate you right out of business. They want you out. They want to stop that one now. So what happens is this. They think they're going to go make their products, sell it in, everyone's going to be happy. So for years, I've been watching, even before this administration, this beauty of an administration. I've been watching and I've seen that they are always trying to stop people from - they're trying to come up with plans - maybe low interest loans, maybe zero interest loans. I think they made a couple where they actually had the people -- they gave them the money at zero interest or whatever. And then they move, because they forgot to say, "you can't move, we are giving you money." This is the people that we owe. So here is the story, here is the story, it's very simple, I'm a free trader. But when trade isn't fair, and when things aren't fair, and when countries disrespect us, we are going to be very firm, very nice. I get along great with leadership, and I don't, again, I'm not angry at the leadership of Mexico or Japan or Vietnam; new strong Vietnam or China. I respect what they're doing in. What they have done is fantastic for them. For us? Horrible. So what we do is simple -- I have watched for many years and it is so basic. Half of the people -- and I know a few of the people here, they're great business people. They are friends of mine. They are friends of mine who came. There's one right over here. Stand up Albert. Where the hell are you Albert? Stand up Albert. He's a good golfer but I'm actually a better golfer than him. Right? I have a lot of friends in the room, great friends. Here is what we are going to do -- they're going to make their products. Here's what they want to do, they want to make their products, send it in, and sell it to Indiana and every other place like nothing happen. There is going to be consequences now. So we tell them, now, if you get there early enough before they build the plant, you say, "listen, we are really happy you are moving to Mexico. We think it is wonderful. Very hot, but it is wonderful. But here is the story, if you are going to move to Mexico, every single time you make an air conditioning unit we will charge you a 35 percent tax." Okay?  "We are not going to give you money or loan you money they don't need." They don't need money, they have plenty of money. This has nothing to do with loans or anything. So all these incentives that our government, which is complicated -- you know loaning money, giving money, and doing tax investments, it's not simple. And I guarantee you -- and I always joke, it is fun for me and I love business. I love it. And I have an instinct for it. I built an unbelievable company, some of the greatest assets in the world. I like it. The only problem is as President I should not be making the call. Right, I joked about this, but I should not be calling the head of an air conditioning company, right, but we have to do it. It's like three minutes. My wife would said, "you should not be calling the head of Carrier Air Conditioning," but I say, "but honey, I'm telling you it is so easy." 'I have some of the greatest business leaders in the world to endorse me. Carl Icahn, great business leader and so many others. The reason they listen is because they know what I am doing. And so, what's happen is this, I get a call, okay, the worst, I will have one of my workers  call. One of the people you would not like very much but who cares, you would wouldn't want them out for dinner. Some of them are nice but most are rather ruthless and vicious, but that is who I want negotiating. I don't want our political hacks negotiating, I want these guys. A few I have to do myself because it is fun. So we call then, and he will go, "yes, Mr. President, it is great honor talk to you." -- "It's a great honor to talk to you also. Listen, you're moving, I understand that you are leaving, you are going from Indiana to Mexico, right?" -- "Yes"-- "Well, I hope you change your mind." -- "Well sir, we won't." Now, you have to understand. I will be hit by every lobbyist and every special interest group in America in order to not make the call, in order to let the deal die, like Hillary Rodham Clinton. Hillary Rodham Clinton. So -- crooked Hillary. So -- so look, here's the story.  So normally, politicians  -- so they're going to be calling, right? They'll call and they'll talk and they say, you know, this and that and they'll say, "Madam President." I don't want to hear that. I do want to hear it eventually because I want to see a woman become president, but it can't be her. She's a disaster.  She's a disaster. She'll set you back a long way, women, if that happens. It'll be a long way before it happens again. You better be careful what you wish for. So here's the story. They'd say to Hillary -- they'd say, "You can't do that. They gave you $2 million." Or, "You can't do that. Your lobbyist paid you a fortune and raised millions of dollars." Or your -- she'll go, "You're right. I can't really do that." And that's the end of it, OK? That's the end. So they move to Mexico, they'll sell their goods, we have our 1400 people unemployed, and I'm talking about times thousands, times thousands of jobs, millions of jobs. Million of jobs. Now, here's the difference. Me, they call. "I don't care." Who is it? I know half of these guys anyway. I don't care. What do I want to take his call for? OK? Does nothing for me. You know, I spent 60 billion  dollars so far in my campaign, right, 60. And I'm spending -- last week -- last month, I guess it was -- somebody said -- I thought it was two million and they said it was 3.8 million. It's really good when you don't know that it's 3.8, right?  No, I thought I put up two  something. And I said, oh will you put up two million? It was actually 3.8 million. And I said to myself, you know, it's great when you can put up 3.8 million instead of two million and you don't care. That's the way it is. I don't care. I don't care.  And I'm continuing, but I'm raising a lot of money. We're raising a lot of money for the Republican Party and it's coming in big league and it's coming in in small doses and that's something no other Republican's going to be able to do. Mike Pence was just saying it's an amazing thing. We raised like 27 million dollars for a partial month last month and we're doing equally well this month of -- and I think the average price was -- the average cost was like $61 or $64, something like that. And that doesn't happen. That happens for Bernie Sanders because it's a different kind of mentality and thinking. And by the way, poor Bernie. Poor -- he just wants to go home and go to sleep. Please.  No. He wants to go to sleep. Who can blame him? Who can blame him?  Who can blame him? He wants to go home. Did you see he left very early last night? He's exhausted. But we're going to get the Bernie people out of him, a lot more than people think, because I know the trade. He was right about one thing, trade. He said we're being screwed on trade and he's right.  He's right. What's happening with trade is right. I will talk about it a little bit more. Then we're going to talk about the border, we're going to talk about our depleted -- you know, little things. But look, Bernie really hurt his legacy because if he would've gone all the way and if they would've had some kind of a march and then he goes and he goes back to being -- I think it's a lot better than the way he sold out to Hillary Clinton. He sold out. He sold out.  I mean, other than trade -- and the problem is he knows trade's no good. The difference is I'll do something about it, big league. Because I like the trade, but we've got to make great deals. Somebody said to me, well, are you a free-trader? Yes. Are you a fair trade? Yes. I'm everything. I could name 10 different forms of trade. I know every one of them. Hey, the Wharton School of Finance right here in this great state, right? But -- but the best school, best school, number one, best school. OK. So, here's the story. So I can name all of them. So one of these characters back here -- look at all of them. You know, for a group of people that said why are you campaigning...  ... boy, do we have a lot of people back there. You know what? For a group of people that asked me this morning: Sir, this isn't traditional that you would be out on the stump. Why are you campaigning? Man, a hell of a lot of people showed up for this, didn't they? And look at it.  Unbelievable.  Unbelievable. Isn't it unbelievable? By the way, I have to tell you, they are the most dishonest human beings you'll ever meet. I really mean it -- the most; the most dishonest human beings you will ever meet.    So, especially if you're like a Republican or conservative, it's forget it. It's forget it. These are really bad people. Now, 25 percent of them are fine; 50 percent are not great; and 25 percent are among the worst people you will ever encounter in your life . They lie. They lie. They lie.  You know the story where they never show the size of the crowds. They never do it. They never do it. Unless a protest -- you know, I don't have protesters. People are so . I always say the safest place you can be is at a Trump rally.  It's the safest place.  The safest place.  True. True.  So, we're going to bring it all back. It's going to all come back. It's going to come back bigger and better than you've ever seen it before. You're going to have jobs flowing in, believe me. You're going to have the Carrier's of the world say I think I'm not going to leave because now we're playing with a different kind of mentality. They're not going to leave. Because they're going to say, "We're not leaving." Now, if they want to go to another state, that's different. You've got to all sort of negotiate with each other. Good luck, folks. Good luck -- our congressman. Good luck. But you know, when they start leaving our country for another country, because we're the stupid people, that's not going to happen, OK? That's just not going to happen. So if you look at what's going on right now in a place not so far away, a place that I happen to love called Philadelphia. I love it. You've got people that are fighting and trying to make their point. And they don't know what's happening. Because remember when I ran and everybody said, well, Trump won, like all of these people, all these professional politicians, and some very good people like Ben Carson, who's great; he endorsed me -- great people.  But very capable people. And I wrote it down. They have these signs. OK? They haven't mentioned ISIS. They don't want it mentioned. Why? Because they created it. So they don't mention ISIS. I told you before, they don't mention our police or our law enforcement. And they wouldn't have those doors open for two minutes if it weren't for the police.  They wouldn't have them open for two minutes.  Right? they wouldn't have them open.  Their new name, which is the joke of all time, is that crooked Hillary is a change maker. Do you see change? You know, they probably paid $2 million to the guy who came up with that slogan. And I came up with crooked Hillary all by myself. Zero, no money. But change maker -- she's a change maker. So she's been doing this for like 30 years plus and she's going to be a change maker, right? She's not going to change because the special interests and her lobbyists will never ever let her change, believe me. They will never let her change even if she wanted to and she doesn't want to , okay? Look at TPP. So TPP, Transpacific Partnership, right, a horrible deal that she was totally in favor of. She said it was the gold standard not long ago. It's the gold standard of trade deals. Well, remember this. The worst deal ever signed from an economic standpoint in the history of our country, right, it's NAFTA. It was signed by who? Bill Clinton. Who by the way gave a speech last night but he didn't mention my favorite chapter, he left one chapter out. " I met a girl. I met a girl." You know, it's funny, when he started the speech last night, he said, "I met a girl." and I said, "that's politically incorrect." And I saw Rachel Maddow give him hell over that, "it's not a girl." But he said it, "I met a girl," and a lot of people thought that was nice. But I said "watch", and Rachel Maddow knocked the hell out of him because he said, "I met a girl", it's supposed to be "I met a woman." I don't know. Maybe we will fight for him on that one, right? And didn't he say, "I then grabbed her" and I said, "this is getting a little crazy now, what's going on?" --" I grabbed her ." And then when he said that, I knew that my favorite chapter would happen . And it didn't happen. He didn't talk about the kinds of things we want to hear about. But what are you going to do? So look, here's the story, they call her a change maker, she's not a change maker. She wants to keep it just the way it is because it's a rigged system. She was very, very disloyal. Now the last person that I like is Debbie Wasserman-Schultz. This person is a disaster. And she has been for a long time. We will take our Reince Priebus any day, right, we will take him. Reince Priebus is a great guy, and he's done a great job. And we had a great convention, and I'll tell you what, Cleveland did a fantastic job. They did a fantastic job.  But think of how disloyal Hillary Clinton was to Debbie. Think of it. This was her -- crooked person. This was a dishonest person. This was a person that was rigging the system for her. She rigged the system -- Carson never had a chance. His people never had a chance. I knew that. I was saying -- I'm the one that came up with the term rigged system, and I said it a year and a half ago pertaining to my system. And frankly, had I not won all of these states by massive landslides, I wouldn't be standing here. You'd have some stiff.  And there'd be 10 people in the office. You know what? You'd have a different kind of a guy. There'd be about 12 people sitting in the first row. Our two congressmen wouldn't be here. They'd say, "We don't want to be here." It'd be a whole different thing and you'd be down 12 points instead of up seven in the state of Pennsylvania, right?  Right? That's the way it is. But here's the thing. I'm a loyal person. When Cory  had a problem, I was loyal. I stuck with her. Everyone said Cory  should be fired. Why? I looked at her tape. What happened? I'm a loyal person. OK? I'm a loyal person. You've got to be loyal to people if they do nothing wrong. Now, in her case, she did a lot wrong, but she did it -- you know, she knew. Hillary Clinton knew what she was doing. She knew the system was rigged, as soon as she got caught because the e-mails came out -- and as soon as she got caught, Hillary Clinton said, "You're fired. Get her out of here. Get her out of here." That's what we have. It's weakness, it's disloyalty and this woman -- she wanted so hard -- remember, she went the other day in front of the Florida delegation. Oh did they rough her up. But she deserves it. Look, she's a dishonest person. She deserves it. But she rigged the system against Bernie in favor of Hillary and Hillary dumped her like so fast. So fast like I've never seen before. And that's not what it's about. Loyalty can be a wonderful thing, and in this case, I thought it was incredible what happened. Now, the things that were on those e-mails were incredible. You talk about race, religion. Women, by the way, if I ever said the things that are on those e-mails, I would've been run out of town and probably, had I gotten the nomination, I would've been forced to come to Scranton, stand right here and say I'm getting out of the race. They were the worst things and they're trying to sluff  them off. They're trying so hard to sluff  them off. And then I see her campaign manager -- I don't know. Young guy, nice guy, who knows? And he's on television and he said that Russia hacked them.  What? No, no. He said Russia hacked them. I'm trying to think of how does he know that, right? So he goes -- I think it was one of the Sunday talk shows, right? And he goes, Russia hacked them. And then goes like -- I said, "How does he know?" He didn't really know but he said Russia -- I could -- and then he said, "Trump. Trump. Yeah Trump." I'm sitting there watching. I'm saying, "What did I do? What did I do?"  What did I do?  What? "Trump." I wish I had that power. Man, that would be power. So he talks about Russia's hacking. The only thing he didn't say is what was on the e-mails was  . That's what the problem is. What was on the e-mails was the horror . But I'll never forget it. I'm sitting. I'm watching every -- you know, falling asleep. He's a boring guy.  And he said Russia with e-mails -- probably was China or somebody else. Might be a 400-pound person sitting in bed. OK? Might be. Some of the greatest hackers of all time.  But he said Russia, and then he said Trump. And I -- it reminded me of Jon Lovitz. You ever see the liar Jon Lovitz, right, in Saturday Night Live? "Yeah, yeah. I went to Harvard. Harvard, that's right." This was like -- yeah, Russia hacked. Yeah. Yeah, it was Trump. Trump. That's -- I'd say whoa. What? Now, these are lying, bad people, folks. These are bad, bad people. These are bad, bad people. And they're incompetent people. And we want to turn our country around. We want to make great trade deals. We want to have strong borders. We want to have the wall. We want the wall. We're going to have the wall. Because we're going to stop drugs from pouring into our country and people from pouring into our country.  We want the wall.  All right. I'll give you a quiz. Do you want the quiz? Who's going to pay for the wall?

Who?

100 percent, 100 percent. You know, I have these clowns. And you can hold it -- just, I mean, honestly, you hold me to it. I have these clowns in the back, these pundits. And they're saying, Mexico's never going to pay for the wall; Mexico -- do you know how much money they make from us each year? And I'm not including with the drugs. I'm leaving that out. No. Which really is a terrible thing, because when I won New Hampshire, the New Hampshire people were unbelievable -- my first victory was in New Hampshire. Where, by the way, I hear I have a seven point lead, you know?  You know, I've got to tell you. It's funny. I have people, politicians, they're running. And some of them embraced me, like these two characters, OK? But some of them said, oh, Trump, he's too controversial. And then I run. I don't care if they -- you know, if they endorse me or not, it doesn't make any difference to me. I think I do better -- I might do better without endorsements. But I have states -- the great Rob . Stand up, Rob. Will you please? Take a bow for two seconds.  So, and if I don't win this state, you'll never be standing up again.  That I can do. Mike? You better believe it. So I have these politicians, and they're running. You know, they're senators. And they say, no, no, we don't want anything to do with Trump;  controversial. Do you endorse? Well, we support him, please don't ask me that question. Then the poll comes out where I'm leading that senator, whoever it may be, by a hell of a lot. And all of a sudden, we love Mr. Trump; he's great for America. This is what we deal with, folks. OK? This is what we deal with. But in New Hampshire, I've got a nice lead, supposedly. I mean, a poll came out, seven points, eight points, more -- something like that; a very good lead. We're doing well. We're doing well in states. And remember this, if a person on the stage with me, and I speak well of all of them now, because it would be nice if the party unified. I don't think it matters from my standpoint. I really don't. I don't think it matters, but it would be nice. I don't know why, but it would be nice, because we have to win. But I will say this. We open up states, meaning me, meaning you. You know, we're together. I'm a messenger. I'm a messenger. That's all I am. Believe me. Believe me.  I'm a messenger.  It's what I am. That's what I am. You know, I was using this phrase for the last couple of months, and I use it again: America first. I use another one -- but I use another one. I use another one: the forgotten man. Now, I have to add "and woman," but there is an whole thing going around. It's called the forgotten man. It's the forgotten men and women. We have forgotten men and women who work hard, who are making less money than they made 18 years ago, who are working much harder than they worked 18 years ago, and now their older. They can't afford their health insurance - who hate looking at what's happening. They can't stand the fact that a priest in France has his throat cut and he lies dying on the ground. They can't stand the fact that we are letting thousands, and thousands, and thousands of people pour into our country from areas of the world. We are going to have problems like you've never seen, I am very good at prognostication, folks, you're seeing that everything I've said has all come true pretty much. And Hillary Clinton wants 550 percent more than Obama -- of people coming in from that area of the world. We don't have documentation, we don't have paperwork, we don't really know who they are. I've spoken to the best law enforcement people in this country and they say, "there is really no way of saying who they are and where they come from," okay? They even stole our passport machine, did you see that? They stole our passport machine some of people, they're going to cause problems. And with me, we're going to do safe zones, were going to help people. Were going to get the Gulf states to pay because I don't want to pay. With our country, we are $19 trillion -- and is going to be $21 trillion very soon . We are going to build safe zones, and we are going to get the Gulf states that we protect, they wouldn't be there -- they have nothing but money and they're going to pay for this. And we are going to build them in Syria and were going to take care of people. But you know what? We're not going to pay for it because we can't pay for it. This isn't 40 years ago, this isn't 20 years ago, this is now. And we are going to make our country so strong, and were going to re-negotiate our military deals. You know, I'm taking a lot of heat where they say, "NATO" , all I said is, "we have many countries, there are 28 countries in NATO, right? There are five that are paying their way." The others -- you don't get it straight. They say back there, "Donald trump doesn't like NATO." Well, I think it's great, I just said, "it was obsolete." Wolf Blitzer on CNN asked me a question. He's fine. He said, "what do you think of NATO"? You have to understand, I have been a businessman but I have good common sense in business. And so, I said, "NATO is obsolete because it's not covering terrorism." And everybody smiled and laughed, and thought it was funny, three days later they are now saying, "Trumps right, It's not covering terrorism" And then a few weeks later, check out the Wall Street Journal. A few weeks later-- front page says, "NATO to open up terrorism division." I said, "great." --and to appoint the great guys, one of their good guys, who knows. Who the heck knows if he's any good? We need your help, father. So that was right. Then I said the second thing so I said, "it's obsolete," so they're working on that. I like it, I think NATO is fine, but we have to adjust. You can't go so many years with no adjustments, so now they have that. I also said because I heard this, that people aren't paying their fair share, they're not paying their way. And then these stupid people, they say, "but we have a treaty." They said, "what would happen if Russia or somebody attacks?" I said, " I don't know. Have they paid? Have they paid? Have they paid tell me? Have they paid. Well, they haven't paid. Well they said, "we have a treaty." Well, I said, "they have a treat too that they have to pay." We are going to end up in World War III protecting people - and these people can't pay. We are going to protect them -- and there's an article right here that says -- cover, Trump is right. Five countries out of 28 are paying their way. So I want them to pay. And here's the story: they will pay if asked by the right person. They'll pay. They'll pay. And Hillary Clinton said, "We will protect our allies at all costs." Well, how the hell can you get money if you're going to say that? And we need money. We have massive, massive deficits. We need money.  We need money. So it sounds cold, it sounds terrible. And then tonight, you'll listen to Obama saying, "Donald Trump wants to give up NATO." He doesn't say it right. I want to keep NATO, but I want them to pay. I don't want to be taken advantage of. We don't want to be the stupid people anymore, OK?  We don't want to be the stupid people anymore. We're protecting countries that most of the people in this room have never even heard of and we end up in world war three and the country -- you know, just come on. Give me a break. Now, if they live up to their obligations, as they should -- and by the way, if they do that, they'll have more spirit in a certain way. OK? But they have to pay. Same thing with Japan and Germany. Can you believe -- a lot of people -- before I ran, did anybody know that we were protecting and paying for a large portion of the protection of Japan, which sells us cars by the millions and Germany and Saudi Arabia and South Korea? We sort of knew because we have 20,000 soldiers on the border. So I said here it is. You've got to pay -- got to pay. So I talk about Japan. Love Japan. Many friends in Japan. Great country. They sell us cars. I mean, you talk about rip-offs. You want to see a trade imbalance? We sell them wheat, they sell us cars. We sell them beef and they don't even take the beef because their farmers say, "We don't want American beef," right? Even though it's the greatest beef in the world, they don't want it. They don't want it.  So we sell them beef, they sell us cars. It's the greatest trade imbalance. You've got to see it. It's like the floor is us, the ceiling is Japan. We're not doing anything about it. We don't do -- but on top of it, we protect Japan. So a general gets on, sent obviously by Obama, and he said, "Mr. Trump doesn't understand. He knows nothing about defense." I know more about offense and defense than they will ever understand, believe me. Believe me. Than they will ever understand. Than they will ever understand.  So I said -- and this is a general. Now, if he says this number, it's actually lower. He said, "Doesn't he understand that Japan pays for 50 percent of its production and its -- of the work we do?" OK. They pay for 50 percent of the defense that we give them, of the military protection that we give them. So the newspaper calls up and they say, "Mr. Trump, sir, they pay for 50 percent of the military." I say, "Why aren't they paying for 100 percent of their -- why?"  And the reporter goes, "Oh, never thought of that." They don't think of that stuff. And Germany. Who has a Mercedes? Half the people in the room . But look...  But look, Germany. Now, I don't mind and I understand all the reasons why and we don't want them to arm and all that stuff. But you know, the man that we know so well who's always threatening everybody in the region, North Korea, if he all of a sudden gets a little more frisky than just words, we end up in a massive war protecting somebody. Now, here's our treaty with Japan. Again, I love Japan. I respect Japan. I respect what they've been able to negotiate. I think it's great. But here's our treaty with Japan. If they get attacked, we have to protect them, essentially world war three, right? If we get attacked, they don't have to do anything. OK? They don't have to do anything. No good. No good. Then they'll say, Donald Trump -- you'll hear it tonight; they have all these guys lined up -- Donald Trump doesn't know about -- I know so much. Now, if we...  And I actually saw it today on television. I saw a couple of people. They called me -- one guys calls me -- he's a teacher at a big college: Could I come up to your office with my students? I said, oh, this is just what I want. Oh, I'm so busy. He comes up. I treat him nice. It's a while ago -- comes up, treat him nice, take pictures with all these students. Yeah, yeah, yeah . Goes back. Then I see him on television today -- I know nothing about -- because I cannot tie the fact that they're not paying into the -- why? Why? Am I right? I mean, you know, give me a break. So, people agree with me, but they don't tell you the story. A lot of them said, headlines, Donald Trump doesn't like NATO; he wants to get out of NATO. They don't say what we're talking about. So when they hear what they're talking about, everybody says, you know, you're right. So right in a headline, in a major newspaper two days ago, five countries out of 28 are paying their way. The rest of them aren't. Some are paying nothing. Because there's nobody to ask them. There's nobody to ask them. So we're not going to be the stupid country anymore. We're not going to be led by stupid people anymore. And we're going to do such...  I mean, think of this. I had a moment where I said we're going to renegotiate NAFTA. Everyone said, oh, that's terrible. I -- what's wrong with renegotiating, right? We're going to renegotiate the NAFTA deal. It's draining our jobs . Everyone said, oh, Donald Trump wants to renegotiate; he's against free trade. I just want good deals. That's all I want. But all I want is good deals. Call him whatever you want, right? But there was a big story -- Donald Trump is going to renegotiate NAFTA; isn't that terrible? I said, let me ask you a question. So, I'm a good negotiator. So we get in a room with these folks. I tell them pretty tough stories because I mean it. Because you always have to be prepared to walk. You have to be. You cannot go into a negotiation unless you're prepared to walk. I'm prepared to walk from a bad deal as a bad deal anyway. So I'm prepared. You guys are I guarantee it prepared to walk. You've lost half of your businesses. I mean, I'm not going to go into it, but I look at Scranton -- Pennsylvania has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. Right? Look at these numbers. Look at these numbers. Look at these numbers. Scranton has lost 43 percent of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. It's not -- this is just -- 43 percent of your manufacturing jobs. So I don't think you'll be hard to convince. I mean, you're smart people. But look, why would anybody be upset about wanting to renegotiate deals, make them better. Why would anybody care? So I say I want to renegotiate NAFTA. And every -- the newspapers --  the newspapers, they say, that's terrible. And I'm trying to figure out why. They have the National Review and some of these conservative groups -- he wants to renegotiate this. He says we're losing a fortune on these deals. So if I negotiate these deals, and I make them from bad deals to good deals and maybe even great deals, why would anybody be upset? They're upset about it. I don't get it. But I don't care because I'll do it. OK? I'm going to do it. But -- but nobody understands. Now, today or yesterday, Hillary Clinton said, first time ever in her life, right? "I am going to renegotiate trade deals." Not one mention of my name in the article. Not one mention. Not one mention. TPP, gold standard, right? She had the gold standard. She then saw me on television knocking the hell out of it because they don't -- they don't talk about currency manipulation and devaluation. They don't talk about many of the problems. Plus, you know what? I want to make a deal not a massive number of countries. I want to make a deal one-on-one, individual countries. Nice and simply. Nice and simple. Nice and simple.  One, two, three. You we don't like. You're bad. Four, fix. No good. Six. These deals are so complicated. So it's a 5,000-page document that the only people in Congress that read are our two congressmen. And I promise you, they didn't read them either. OK? Don't worry.  So this is a 5,000-page document that nobody read. Remember Obamacare? Remember when Obama came out, it was thousands of pages and they went to Congress and nobody read it? And then, you had the wise guy from one of the good schools and he said it was a con job. He said it was a con job and everybody was going to just go after that guy. And you know what happens? A couple of weeks go by, they'll forget. But I remember and I -- I will bring it up. Remember the guy? He said that Obamacare was a con job. Remember that? It was all a big con. And two weeks go by and they -- sort of fades, and then four weeks go by it's over. But it's not over with me. So here's the thing. I want to do individual countries because what happens is when you do a lot of countries, number one, too complicated. You have all -- you've got to see the lines on this thing. I looked at it -- 5,000 pages. You've got to see the things. It's here, here, here. It's like the craziest thing. Impossible. And if the country -- one of the countries is bad, you can't get out because it's such a complicated web. I want to make trade deals with individual countries. Nice and simple. Nice and beautiful. Nice and beautiful.  And if the country misbehaves or takes advantage of us, like they always do, we just send them a notice. "Sorry, here's your 25-day notice." OK? We're breaking off -- and you know what they'll do? They'll call up and -- "What do we have to do to keep it going?" OK? We'll make a better deal. It's what we do. So look. Folks, we are going to make this country so strong again. We're going to build up our military; it's totally depleted. We're going to build a wall. We're going to take care of our veterans. Our veterans are our great people. We're going to take care of our veterans.  We're going to take care of our vets. They've been forgotten. So many people have been forgotten.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I just ask you this one thing. I didn't need this and neither do you. Sitting in this room is about 200 degrees. OK? The only good thing is you lose a lot of weight.  But look, what I ask you is this. You have to go November 8th and you have to vote or we've just all wasted our time.  This is a movement, but it's only really a movement if we win. I -- I tell the story a lot about people that tell me what you've done has never been done in politics before and all that stuff. I say no, it doesn't mean anything. If I knew that I wasn't going to win, I wouldn't even waste my time doing it. I wouldn't waste my time. They said, "No, no. In terms of history, what you've done has never been done." I said, "It doesn't mean a thing unless we win." OK? Doesn't mean a thing because we can't do what we're going to do.  And it's so simple. We're going to make thing fair. We're going to make things fair. So I only asks you one thing. Get every person you know. We have to win the state of Pennsylvania. And I can't believe she has many fans here.  I can't believe she has many fans here. I don't believe she has many fans here. And the miners and the steel workers and the executives and the professors, we've got them all. We have to get out there. We have to vote. We can't sit back because this is a really vital state. And you're going to see because she's got a billion dollars to blow and she'll put on these crazy ads, much of which is wrong. I'd go into it, but I don't want to even bother. But they're wrong. They're false. But she's going to put on all these ads, and you know what? They're false ads. Thank you, darling. I love you, too. Look at her. I love them.  But look. Look. Thank you. She's going to put ads. You know, when I was running in Florida, I won in a landslide. I went through two weeks of ads. I was down there. I said this is the most incredible thing I've ever seen. You couldn't see -- I was dying to see an ivory soap ad...  But there wasn't, because Trump was -- all negative ads and I won in a massive landslide. So somehow, people understand the truth because they're really phony ads and false ads and vicious. But here's the story. Come November 8th, you have to get out and vote because it is a movement and it's a movement like nobody's seen. They're talking about it all over the world. We're on the cover of Time Magazine every two hours. Many covers of Time Magazine because of what's happened. And you know, my whole life, I've been on Time Magazine I think a couple of times. My whole life. Not so bad. And the last number of months, I think it's six or seven times, right? That's pretty good. So you tell me. What's more important, real estate or politics, right? But what really is more important is making America great again, and that's what we're going to do.  I love you. Thank you very much. Get out and vote November 8th. I love you. Thank you. Thank you. 

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have to tell you that the fire marshall -- they turned away thousands of people, they turned away -- thank you very much. They turned away thousands of people -- look at the size of this place. They turned away thousands, they were giving orders that no more than a thousand people. Now, Hillary Clinton, I have a picture here which is pretty sad.  She had, she had, last week or a couple of days ago, look at -- totally empty.  But is the mayor a Democrat? Is there a Democrat over here? That's what I heard. He ought to be ashamed of himself. They turned away thousands of people, but that makes it better for you, right?  It's very sad. You know. It shouldn't be so much about politics, folks. We're gonna do a town hall so we're gonna be talking about questions and this and that. I'll say a few words. But outside, I met two gentlemen from Piketon who really were misrepresented very badly, very badly, by President Obama and they're gonna come up. Come up fellas. I just met them.  Because we're gonna bring back our jobs, we're not gonna let our jobs go to Mexico and all these other countries, we're gonna renegotiate the horrible NAFTA deal which is maybe the worst deal every made from an economic development standpoint -- I'm not just talking in this country I'm talking about in the world -- we're gonna bring back our jobs. And we're also gonna stop radical Islamic terrorism. We're not letting the people come in. We're not letting them come in. And they can play all the games they want. But we're not -- you know Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase from Syria coming into this country over Obama. And you'd actually say what is she doing? So here's a letter from President Obama to these two gentlemen that have worked so hard and are having a hard time, and maybe in just a little while you could just say exactly what's going on.

Thank you both very much. Same old stuff, politicians. All talk, no action, won't happen. And you know Hillary will be nothing more than four more years of Obama. Four more years of ISIS. Four more years of a military that's being depleted and not taking care of our vets. She said a few months ago our vets are being taken care of just fine. She said, "No, no, it's over-exaggerated, I know the vets. I think I have tremendous support with the vets." Raised a lot of money and gave a lot of money to the vets. I will tell you something. The vets are not being taken care of well at all. The suicide rate is hard to believe, even, when you hear the numbers and you know the numbers I'm talking about. They wait in line for two, three, four, five days -- think of it, going to a doctor and waiting for five days -- longer than that -- and people are dying waiting in line. SO we're gonna take care of our vets. We're going to again secure, and very important, we're gonna secure our borders. We're gonna secure our borders.
We're gonna build the wall. We're gonna build the wall and Mexico's gonna pay for the wall. And the reason -- some of the politicians have said, you know they're not going to pass it. No, no, you don't understand. They're going to pay. They are making so much money, Mexico -- they're taking our business -- a friend of mine builds plants, that's what he does, plants. If he had to build an apartment, he wouldn't know where to begin, but he builds massive plants, among the biggest in the world. And I said to him recently, how are you doing? He said, unbelievable. Now he's from this country, and he'd like to do well in this country. But I said, how are you doing? He said, unbelievable. I said, that's good. So you're doing a lot of work in the United States? Not so much. I said, well how are you doing unbelievably? You wouldn't believe what's happening in Mexico. It's the eighth wonder of the world, that's what he told me. I said, what does that mean? He said, they're building among the biggest plants we've ever built. It's unbelievable. Companies are moving out of the United States -- Columbus, by the way -- they're moving out of the United States, they're moving out of Ohio, I asked him, they're moving out of Michigan, big league  the cars -- he builds car plants. He builds computer plants. Builds them all. And they're moving out of the United States. So I said, how's the United States doing? He says, not so good. He said, but Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world. That's going to end, folks. We want Mexico to do fine, but we're not going to let them take our jobs anymore. We're not going to let it happen. You look at this area, I mean, I have statisticians, right -- good statisticians -- they love to do this. I can't imagine doing it and being too much fun. To me, it would be a little bit boring to do. But I'll tell you, the numbers are horrendous. First of all, I don't know if you just saw the number for growth of our country. Did you see that? Growth -- 1.2 percent. 1.2 percent! We're sinking. We're sinking. That's one of the lowest numbers ever. I think it's the lowest number ever in terms of trying to make a comeback. 1.2 percent. But in Columbus -- and I looked at this, and this is bad, this is bad -- Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. Bill Clinton signed it. And Hillary Clinton wants it . Think of that. Hillary Clinton's disastrous trade policies are responsible for the manufacturing job losses in Ohio and throughout the other states of this country. I've got  a machine. And I'll tell you, the problem with a machine, it totally controls the press. You look at CNN, it's called the Clinton news network. All day long, Trump, Trump -- all day long, CNN, Trump, Trump, such a bad guy. I just want to bring back your jobs. I want to bring back your safety. Because we're not safe. 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and other territories, and we have no idea who they are. And I've gone to the best law enforcement officials and they said there's no way of you telling, they have all sorts of false things. You know, they stole our passport machine, you saw that. They make passports better than we do, OK. They have -- think of it, 550 percent more than -- Obama, he's letting in thousands and thousands of people. The people in Ohio, the people in the rust belt -- and they call it the rust belt for a reason, because everything's rusting and rotting. You lost your jobs. They're moving to Mexico. Remember my friend with the plant. When you're going to vote, remember this, November 8 -- when you go to vote, remember my friend with the plant, where he says it's the eighth wonder of the world. And we're going to renegotiate -- if you want, unless you don't want to do this. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA, and it was very funny. The other day, I saw Hillary Clinton saying -- first time ever -- we are going to start renegotiating our trade deals. That's been me for years. That's been me. Number one, she won't do a good job of it, for a lot of reasons, but one of them is that she's totally controlled by the special interests. And I'll give you an example. I just saw this number. Just read it coming up here. Donald Trump has raised $19,000 from hedge funds. Now I don't know how it got in there. I don't even want it. I'll send it back. Hillary Clinton, from hedge funds, has raised $48.5 million. Think about it. $48.5 million. I hope you don't own -- I have a friend, he's very wealthy. He doesn't own a hedge fund. But raised 48.5 million -- I have 19,000. I think I'll send the 19,000 back. Probably a nice person, but think of it. But here's really what's important to me. So I funded, as you know, my primary. People were very happy. I'm continuing to fund my general election. But we're also taking small donations, which in the primary wasn't a big factor because we didn't really -- we sold hats and things, little things, it was cute and people like it and people put in small money. But I funded it, and I guess I'm into everything for 60 million or over 60 million or soon will be over 60 million, but I'm continuing to fund my campaign. But we're also raising money from people where they send in a check, small donors, right. You've sent in a check? Who sent in a check? Wow. Whoa. That's fantastic. So, we only started last month, and she's going to have like a fortune. She's going to have like a billion, billion and a half, because she's going to be totally controlled. Like we talk about uranium , the two gentlemen, great people -- well, she had a lot to do with Russian uranium. You saw that deal. And got paid a fortune for allowing Russia to come in -- talk about uranium, that's big stuff, OK. Got paid a fortune. And we'll be talking about that during the campaign, don't worry about it. But -- so we started, really, around the middle of June, and we had a tremendous June, and they were saying, Donald Trump didn't raise any money. Well, we didn't start. We started in the middle of June, and we raised, I think it as $27 million from the small donors. That was around 60 some odd dollars apiece. And we also raised, from other people, about -- I don't know, the total was about $51 million, OK. That was in June. We hardly -- that was like for half a month. Because people want to see something happen with our country. But here's what's really good news. This is just going to be reported, I think, today or tomorrow. We have raised, with the small donor, $35.8 million. Think of that. I believe it's 517,000 donors. Think of that. That's in a month.
So we raised 35.8 million, even a little more than that, and the average price of the donation was $69. How incredible is that, right?  And it's not even to me the money. It's to me the concept -- in all fairness, Bernie Sanders was doing that, you know? Because there was some movement, now, it was a movement on the other side of the plate. But you know what? He had one thing in common with me. He knew that the trade deals are destroying our country. The difference is he couldn't do anything about the trade deals. I'll take those trade deals and make them so good that's what I do. I love taking bad deals and making them good, that's what I do. I take bad deals and make them good; NAFTA's a bad, bad, bad deal. And I'm gonna make it good.  But think of that. So we raised $35.8 million, an excess of that in a month. And then in addition we raised money that hasn't been tabulated yet from people that are putting up larger numbers. But that's going to the Republican National -- largely -- to the Republican National Committee and -- I'm -- and I'm putting up money to run my campaign, OK? So when you see -- when you see that Clinton, crooked Hillary, crooked -- she's crooked as a three dollar bill, let me tell ya. She is crooked. When you see crooked Hillary with $48.5 million from hedge funds and Trump at $19,000, when they call me because they wanna stop a company from doing something or when they call me because they want one of your companies to get the green light to move into Mexico and fire everybody, believe me I'm gonna take care of these -- I'm gonna do what's right for you. She's gonna do right for her donors. I'm gonna do right for you so it's gonna be a big difference.  It's gonna be a big difference. So -- so I'll just tell you, we're battling a lot of things. But we're battling the press because the press is very dishonest, OK? The press is very dishonest. So -- so as an example, as an example I gave a very good answer over the weekend to one of the shows  on Russia going into the Ukraine. I said very simply they're not gonna do it on my watch, essentially. I said Russia will not go into the Ukraine, now I said that. And the next day, the story comes out and we really let it roll a little bit. Actually, I think it was USA Today; a couple of them covered it accurately, what I said. But a couple of paper said Donald Trump doesn't realize that the Crimea was already taken. I know it exact -- two years ago, approximately OK? Approximately. It was taken during Obama's watch. So when I said believe me, Russia's not going into Ukraine, all right? They're not going into Ukraine. The person said but they're already in Ukraine. I said yeah well, that was two years ago, that's -- that's -- I mean you wanna go back? You wanna have World War III to get it back? That was during Obama's watch. So during Obama's watch -- you know all the tough guys statements, right? So he talks about Donald Trump is not strong on Russia. First of all, I have to say this. Wouldn't it be great if we actually got along with Russia? Am I wrong in saying that? Wouldn't it be great?  OK? You know Russia, like us, has nuclear weapons folks. It would be really nice if we got along with Russia and others that we don't get along with right now and wouldn't it be nice if we teamed up with Russia and others, including surrounding states and maybe NATO and we knocked the hell out of ISIS and got rid of these people?  Wouldn't that be nice? Right?  But -- but even beyond that, even beyond that Putin said some very good things about me, people say, "Oh, Trump's going to be weak with Putin," because Putin is saying nice things about me. OK, all right.
And I said he's a strong guy. They immediately say, "Oh, Trump likes" -- but, look, I don't like or dislike. I just say it this way. Wouldn't it be great if the United States and Russia got along, combined, knocked out ISIS, maybe did other positive things? You know, we forced them through stupidity into an alliance with China. You know why? Because of oil. Because China needs oil. We were driving both crazy. They formed -- and from the time I was young guy, I've always learned, don't ever let China and Russia get together -- we forced them together. Obama forced them together. Because you didn't get along with either and they eventually -- China came in and said, "let's make a deal on oil." They're together. In fact, they're doing naval exercises together someplace. And you look at China, they're building one of the largest military installations in the world right smack in the middle of the South China Sea. And then they talk about Donald Trump and Russia, or Donald Trump, but -- believe me, folks, somebody can say nice things about me -- he did call me a genius but these are minor details -- somebody can say nice things about me -- it has -- it makes no difference. It makes no difference. All right? I have been dealing a long time. A lot of times I will make much better deals with people that say terrible things about me. I don't care what they say about me; I want the deal. You know, on trade, one of the people that's standing back there -- one of the dishonest media -- "well, what's your definition of trade?" I said, "well, your fair trade -- you have all sorts -- you have so many different types of trade." But here is my definition of trade. Because right now we are being ripped off -- $500 billion trade deficit with China -- $500 billion. And they give us product, we let them in, no tax, no nothing. You want to try and make a deal with China? You can't get your product in, and if you do you pay tax, and if you do you also have to build plants over there. And they don't even want that; they don't want you in. They're one-sided deals. So when they said, "what's your trade deal?" I said very simply, "I want to make great deals for the United States." We don't have to name it. You have fair trade. You have all sorts of names. I learned every single one of them in college. Now we have added a couple. Here is the problem. We have stupid people doing our negotiating. We have stupid people doing our negotiating. I'll give you an example. If a company in Ohio said they're going to leave, we're going to fire -- which as you know, many companies are leaving -- and by the way, as you are sitting here right now -- right now, we have companies negotiating with Mexico and other places to close up in Ohio and to move into Mexico or other places. OK? As you're sitting here right now. Some of you people think you have good jobs. Guess what? Carrier thought they had good jobs, Ford thought they had good jobs; lots of  -- hundreds and hundreds -- thousands of companies have left -- thousands. Millions of jobs. And Hillary Clinton is weak and she is ineffective and there is no way you can allow four more years of this stuff to go on. There's just no way in my opinion.
But let's say -- and by the way, your steel mills in Ohio where China is dumping steel to put you guys out of business -- they're dumping -- you know that? Who's in steel over here? Am I right? They're dumping steel to put the steelworkers out of business. And Hillary said the miners -- any miners in here? Miners? I love the miners. Oh, West Virginia was good to me, I'll tell you. And Ohio was good to me. A lot of miners in Ohio. Miner. But Hillary Clinton said, "We're going to put the miners and the mines out of business." Now, she said that before probably an environmental group or something, but then she tried to back up. But they remembered she said it and she got clobbered in West Virginia. Smart people. She got clobbered in West Virginia. So, we're going to have clean coal, and we're going to have steel, and we're going to make our products again , and we're going to have the people in Columbus and all of Ohio and all of Michigan and all of these other states -- you know, I did great in Michigan. I did great in Ohio, too. Unfortunately I didn't have a long time to campaign. If I would have spent two more days here, I would have won Ohio too, because I won practically everything else. We got almost 14 million votes. Think of that. More than anybody in the history of Republican primaries. That includes some great people like Ronald Reagan, Dwight D. Eisenhower, who won the Second World War, right, he did win the Second World War. Got elected because he won the Second World War. I got more votes than him, that's good, right? And remember this, I had 17 people. I wasn't running against two people. I had 17 people. Hillary Clinton, I got a similar number to Hillary Clinton, and she had Bernie, and she had a hard time putting Bernie away. And Bernie -- poor Bernie. He looked so upset. You know what, he made a mistake. He shouldn't have made a deal. Sometimes -- he lost, he lost. First of all, it was rigged, and I'm afraid the election is going to be rigged, I have to be honest. Because I think my side was rigged -- if I didn't win by massive landslides -- I mean, think of what we won in New York and Indiana, California, 78 percent. That's with other people in the race. But think of it. I hear more and more that the election on November 8 -- can you believe, we're almost there. This started on June 16 of last year and I said, wow, let's go do it. Takes guts to do this, believe me. And everybody said -- no, it takes guts. I could be having a very nice life right now. I don't have to be with you people, ranting and raving. Could have a very nice life. But it takes guts. And everybody said, this is the greatest field. I remember Charles Krauthammer saying, this is the greatest field ever assembled in the history of Republican politics, or something to that effect. This is before I got in. And I said to my wife, you know, it's a great field. Charles Krauthammer and others are saying this is the greatest field ever assembled. It's also the largest field ever assembled. So I have the greatest, largest field ever assembled. And then one day, I just, I had it. I watched the Iran deal, this horrible deal be done, where we give back $150 billion and they're making nuclear weapons, and we've made a power out of Iran. They were struggling for their life and we've made a power out of Iran. In fact, they were in serious trouble, when they were all marching in the streets, it was over, and Obama came to their rescue, if you remember that. First term. That was a bad day. That was going to be over for them, and we came to their rescue. Now we've made them into a power, OK. A big power. But I saw the Iran deal and I saw the stupidity on trade, where companies are leaving -- one of them was, Carrier left Indiana. 1,400 people fired, moving to Indiana, they're going to make their plant, they're going to build it, they're going to take their air conditioners, make them, sell them right back into Indiana and other places, no tax, no nothing. With me, they're going to be taxed 35 percent and you know what? They're never going to move. They're never moving, folks. They're never moving. Did you ever see -- because I love this stuff. You know, people say, not a politician. Remember when they said a certain person? Well, he got clobbered. Raised tremendous amounts of money, and everybody thought he'd do really well. But they say -- but he hasn't been an active politician for eight years. I've never been a politician, and we've won in a landslide. So -- but I don't get credit for that. They don't give me credit. What are you going to do? I was joking -- I was joking, because some people thought I was a little bit too tough -- and I have been -- certain people that I ran against in the Republican primaries have never come back. And they probably won't. And that's OK. I do better when they don't come back. I do better if I have them as my opponent as opposed to my ally. No, no, but we have a few. You know their names. We have a few. They haven't come back. They haven't come back. I'll tell you, I was honored at the convention for two reasons. Number one, I had 35 million people watching. Hillary had what, 28 million people, this final speech, so we had more people watching. The press built up that convention like it was the greatest Democrat Convention -- I actually thought -- I liked the Republican Convention. I would rather watch -- I would rather watch Ivanka Trump than any of their celebrities, I can tell you. I would rather watch Don and Eric and Tiffany and Melania did a great job. I would rather watch them than any of their celebrities. You know, they all said, well Donald Trump had his kids -- isn't that nice if you have kids that are capable enough to go up and do it? You know why people haven't had their kids go up? Because their kids can't do it. And I can understand that. That's a hard thing to do. My kids went up, they were brave, they were strong. Tiffany, we pushed her out on the stage, go. She never did it before. Tiffany said, this is really scary, and we just said, just go do it, and she did beautifully. She never spoke to anybody -- it's true. The biggest group she's ever spoken to is like 18 people in a class, where she was a very good student, I have to say. But they did a great job. But I actually liked the Republican National Convention better -- I'll tell you what. We had a much better looking stage, number one, which is important. We won for stage . But we got a very unfair press. When Bernie Sanders had his people leaving the room, nobody covered that. If I would have had people leave the room, it would have been a national scandal. When a certain man got up -- and I knew his speech. I said, look, let him speak, what difference does it make? And -- he says -- a certain man got up and he spoke, and everybody in the room booed the hell out of him. In fact, I saved his life when I walked back into the room. But everybody in the room -- and his numbers went down like from 68 to 20- something. That's called unity, folks. That's unity. That's a good thing, not a bad thing. That is unity. And -- but the problem we have -- the biggest problem we have, I think, is the press. "The New York Times" is totally dishonest. Totally dishonest. "The Washington Post," gotten a little bit better lately, I took away their press credentials. I should do it with "The Times," but -- the problem is, you get more publicity from doing -- just let them rot. But "The New York Times" is really, really dishonest, and it's failing. I don't think they'll be in business more than two or three years. Look at their numbers. They're failing. But they do a number that's unbelievable. Every story is bad.
In fact, sometimes I'll say, oh, great. This was so good, I'm going to have a great story tomorrow in "The New York Times." You know, they'll call. Always turned out to be a disaster. They -- it's so dishonest. And yet Hillary. Hillary. Crooked Hillary they write beautifully about. Right? Washington Post, similar. It was really bad, now it's gotten a little bit better I must tell you. Washington Post got a little bit better. CNN is so dishonest. Clinton News Network, so dishonest. Unbelievable. Do you know what they call it? It may be the Clinton News Network, but nobody wants to watch Hillary. All day long, it's Trump. All day, all the time. That's what it is. But it's so much inaccurate information. And by the way I think their ratings are going to go down really sharply now. They've been asking me to go on for months. I won't do their shows. And the reason I won't is because it's so dishonest that until they straighten up I'm not doing their shows. And when people finally realize that I'm not doing their shows they stop watching. That's what happens. And I must say, I don't say this for a reason, and they're tough. They're very tough on me. But Fox has at least been fair. They've been fair. Fox has been fair. So at some point, at some point we're just gonna keep barreling through. People asked me to run. People asked me to run. At wheel Donald Trump  Letters and everything. You know we have 22.5 million people between Twitter and -- can you believe it? -- you know I have a lot of people, they say, "Don't use Twitter anymore." I say "Why? I get 22 million people between that and Facebook and Instagram. I'm a very modern person in a way, right?" You know who says don't use Twitter? Your enemies. Why wouldn't I use it? Why wouldn't I -- if I have all these millions of people, and it's a great way to get a message out. So when they write falsely, or say something totally false on the Today Show, or Good Morning America, I've put out a tweet. And you'll see all over television -- we have breaking news. And I may be tweeting from bed. OK? It's true. It's instantaneous. If I put out a beautiful, long, perfectly scripted press release like I did yesterday nobody puts it out. If I put out a 140-character tweet they go crazy. "We have breaking news." They break into every story. So you got to use it.  Well, here's a story. I love Ohio. I've been here, I work here. I don't know if you know -- I worked in Cincinnati for a period of time. I had great success. It was one of my first jobs. I did it with my father. It was called Swifton Village. And we bought something that was a disaster. It was empty, it had 1,154 units. It was a total disaster. And we bought it from HUD. And turned it around. I was here, I did a great job, it gave me great confidence because it's good to head  with a good job, and then we sold it, at a tremendous profit, and we went on to the next. And I loved Cincinnati. And interestingly, after I sold it, the job went very bad. The job went very bad. I mean -- my timing was very good. I listened to people but I really listened to myself and the timing was beautiful. WE had it for a number of years but we sold it. And the day I sold it, to the day we closed contract, was bought by a REIT. One of the early REITs. It lost a lot of its occupants. That's how the timing was. It was perfect timing. I just think of Cincinnati, the Queen City, I love Cincinnati. I love Kentucky. I go to Kentucky for fun. I won't tell you what -- can you imagine that story if they find out about that? But I love Kentucky. And Kentucky likes me. Boy did I do well in Kentucky. Kentucky. We love Kentucky. And we're gonna take care of the miners in Kentucky. Believe me. We're going to take care of the miners in Kentucky. But I had a great time in Cincinnati and I had a great time in Ohio. The people of Ohio are special people. And they're smart people. And they know what is happening to them, they know great things are gonna happen. We are gonna turn this state into a manufacturing behemoth. We're gonna bring your jobs back. We're gonna bring your companies back. We're gonna bring companies that left, are gonna come back because it will no longer be economic for them to continue where they are. We're gonna bring companies back. We're gonna bring companies back. You know I tell this one story, you've heard about, with Carrier in Indiana. Which I won in a landslide, that was supposed to be the firewall, remember that? Indiana will be his firewall. They said, New York, we've expect him to win Pennsylvania, we expect him to win. Won Maryland, Rhode Island, Delaware -- we won them all. We expect him. But Indiana is going to be the firewall. Right? And then Bobby Knight called, and Bobby Knight -- how about Bobby Knight? We love Bobby Knight, right? Winner. He's a winner. Bobby Knight. And he came out -- 900 games, three national championships, last undefeated college team, won the Olympics, won the Pan Am Games. Other than that, eh, he's a good coach. Right? We love Bobby Knight. And what a job. And what a tough cookie. And he said to me, "I hope you're gonna run for president." This is before I knew him. He called me. "You should run for president. You'll be great." I said, "Bobby I haven't decided." This was before June 16th, a few months. "I haven't decided." He said, "Just run." And then when I ran I called him and he said, "I've been waiting for you to call." And we went to Indiana and it was incredible. But the thing that happened, that I've been talking about for a year, and it happened to be in Indiana, was when Carrier Air Conditioner fired 1,400 people. Right? They fired 1,400 people like dogs. Like dogs they fired them. It's on tape. Had I not seen it on tape, on television, it wouldn't have had the impact that it had. These are people who had worked there, some of them for more than 30 years. And they would follow me around all over Indiana, and I'd have the people from Carrier. So let me just tell you, if I were negotiating and let's say I heard they were gonna close, and if I said, "Folks. Want to meet with you. Where's your president?" They send their president along. Said, "Let me tell you. You're leaving 1,400 great people. Now if you want to stay within the United States that's a different deal. The states will compete against themselves. Right? But you want to move to Mexico? You want to build a plant? I wish you luck. But if you do that you're going to pay this 35 percent tax." Here's what's gonna happen, folks. Folks. Here's what's gonna happen. So simple. They're not gonna leave. They're not gonna leave. Because it doesn't work economically for them to leave. So now they're not gonna leave. And if they do leave that's OK too because we're gonna make a fortune. OK? We're gonna make a fortune.
Now I've been watching this country for seven or eight or nine years, even before Obama, working on plans to stop people and companies from leaving the United States. I've seen low-interest loans, I've seen zero-interest loans -- I've seen it all. I've seen it all. I've seen every plan you can imagine. I've seen where they give them money, they do everything. A lot of these companies don't need money, they just want to make more. But you know what? My plan, which is so simple -- we don't need anything. Nice and simple. And when I say that to the company -- if you're running a company, you in the blue, and you're running a company and I say to you, if you leave Ohio, I wish you a lot of luck, enjoy the warm climate in Mexico. But if you leave Ohio, you're not going to make your product and sell it back into Ohio where you have all these unemployed people. What's going to happen is you're going to have a tax to pay to get the product back in. Now, when you hear that, you're not going to be very fast to leave. You're not going to actually leave, OK. Almost 100 percent, you're not going to leave. It's just not going to work. Because the economics don't work anymore. Now, when my friend talks about, it's the eighth wonder of the world, Mexico , I think that's great. I respect Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I have thousands of Mexican people that have worked for me over the years. Thousands and thousands, they're great. But their leaders are too smart for our leaders, OK, and they're stripping our country, and they're stripping Ohio. So Hillary Clinton doesn't talk this way. Hillary gets up and she reads her teleprompter, we are going to build new roads. We are going to build new schools. We are going to build -- we are going to build. And just like the two gentlemen that came up here, you'll be let down 100 percent. But me, this is my thing. I've been talking about this for years. You know, somebody said, it's amazing, Trump's been talking about this for 20 years. It used to be Japan. Remember when I talked about Japan? Now it's China, but it's still Japan. Japan made a fortune devaluing their currency. China makes a fortune with currency manipulation. It's cheating. It's cheating. And when I sit down and say, listen, you've got to stop this, you're killing us, you've got $500 billion trade deficits for us, you got to stop it -- we have rebuilt China. And when I tell them this, and when I say, listen, you got to do it, you got to do it -- see, we have all the power, but nobody knows it. Like, when we catch them cheating, ten percent tax right across the board. Every good coming in from China, right. Now, here's what's going to happen -- number one, they're going to stop cheating. And if they don't, we collect ten percent, we make a fortune. But they're going to stop cheating. There's nobody that tells them this. When they come over, President Obama, they put a tent on the White House lawn, right, and they give them a steak dinner like you've never seen before. Although I would have a ballroom. I offered to build a ballroom, you know -- they turned it down. I was going to put up $100 million to build a ballroom at the White House, because having a tent is not that good. It's not even that safe, a canvas tent. And they never even got back to me. That's the way it is. If I were president, somebody offered that, I'd say, give me the top five American architects in the Untied States. Get them over here. All of you, come up with a ballroom that holds 1,000 people, 1,000 people, and they'll come up, and one of them will be beautiful, and we'll build it. I'll take the guy's money. Believe me, I promise, somebody wants to build a ballroom at the White House. They turned me down. No interest. No interest, because that's the way the country is. So, I'm only saying to the people of Ohio, to the people of Columbus, I want to tell you, we're going to turn this country around and we're going to make it so strong and so great, and we're going to run it smart. We're not going to run it stupid like it is. You're not going to have -- when I look at your numbers, when my statistician writes all this stuff out, it's just one bad number after another. It's a terrible -- I mean, honestly, it's a terrible thing. Look, Columbus, Columbus. Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, right. Columbus has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed an agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization. Hillary rammed through the job killing trade deal with South Korea -- that's been a killer. The deal with South Korea has been a killer. I buy thousands of television sets, thousands and thousands -- nobody makes television sets. Remember, we used to have Sylvania, for those of us that are old enough, we had General Electric, we had all these companies -- we've got nobody. We don't make television sets. We don't make a lot. Soon, we won't make anything. And you can only have so many nursing homes in a factory. A lot of factories were taken, they were made into nursing homes. I think that's great. But you can only have so many of them. We need jobs. Look at this. I mean, abandon  diplomatic personnel -- so many different things. Supports, I told you this -- supports at 550 percent increase, it was sort of amazing, because the press is always saying, well, you're wrong, and you exaggerated that number, no matter -- if you said, two and two are four, they will get these super liberal groups to say, well, he's not really right. It's not really four. You know, when I read off the crime statistics about the police that are being shot, like in Dallas and other places, and I read about it, and I said we had a 50 percent increase in police shootings, and they said, well, yes, but that was only for this year. But if you go over 10 years or 12 years, or if you go over 7.3 years, a little bit less -- look, folks, the country is a mess. We're going to make it strong again, we're going to make it safe again, you're going to be so proud of it. And you're going to be proud of your president, but more importantly, you're going to be proud of your country. So why don't we take a few questions, and when we're finished with the questions, let's go back to work, and those of you that don't have work, hang in there. Jobs will be back sooner than you think. OK, believe me. Yes, go ahead.

Right.

OK. There can't be a better question, other than on defense. Because we're going to build up our depleted military, most importantly -- defense is always number one, don't you think? But, we're going to build our depleted -- we're going to take care of our vets. OK. Obamacare. Number one, we're going to repeal it and replace it 100 percent. It is a total disaster. You saw what's happening in Texas. Blue Cross Blue Shield, working through Obamacare, 60 percent increase. Here's the thing -- nobody knows this. The numbers are so bad on Obamacare, so bad, that on November 1, they're going to be announced. Those numbers are presidential election changing numbers. Those numbers are going to be so high, beyond anything we've had, and President Obama is trying to change the date to December 1, because when people see what's going to happen to Obamacare and to your health care numbers, they're so astronomical that people will never vote for crooked Hillary Clinton. They're never going to vote for her.
So -- and you asked a very interesting question, the way you phrased it was very interesting. Because you have a lot of part- time workers now that never had a part-time job in their life. You have people in this room -- don't raise your hands, but you have people in this room that are making less money now than they made 18 years ago in real wages. Less money. And, in some cases they're making less money, and working two jobs and that's largely because of Obamacare because companies save money by breaking it up. So, they'll take full-time, beautiful employees that have worked for companies for years and they'll say I'm sorry, you're going to be a part-time employee from now on. Obamacare has been a disaster. Obamacare is so unfair, and, you know, you had a lot of people that had good plans. We have to take care of people that can't, that don't have the money to take care of themselves. You look like a rich guy, OK? At least modestly rich, I think. Could be very rich. But, we have to take care of people that can't afford it. And, I'm all for that. And, we have something coming I think that's going to be great. And, a lot of Republicans would say that's not Republican. Let me tell you, it is Republican, folks. You know, every time I've ever said it I've never had anybody other than the eggheads, you know the people that said Trump is never going to run. And, if he runs, I don't think he'll do very well. We got a six, we got a 12, we got 24, I mean, forget it. But, you know what? Other than these so called, "eggheads" we never -- and I mean this, we never had anybody in an audience when I said we're going to have a great plan. We're getting rid of the boundaries, we're going to have great private competition, and you're going to have plans now that we can't even talk about because these companies will come up with plans and it's going to be so much less expensive, and so much better. And, for the people that can't afford that, we're going to take care of them. And, I tell you what, I've never had one person -- and I have the biggest crowds of anybody, I've never had one person stand up and say that's not Republican, except for the eggheads. They say, you can't do that. We got to take care of people. We can't have people dying in the streets. We can't have our vets, as an example, dying waiting in line because they can't get to see a doctor.  And, without vets, interestingly, but, without vets when you have these massive waits we're going to have our vets go to the local doctors, or the local hospital, private or public, take care of themselves. They're not going to be committing suicide. Many are committing suicide because of the waits, they can't stand it. They can't stand the pain. Simple procedures can save their lives. Simple procedures. A little incision, a small operation, a pill. A pill can save their lives and they're dying waiting for a doctor, and we're going to -- and my plan is filed. Policy. We're going to have people, they can't get in, they're going to go. They're going to see a local doctor, they're going to see a local hospital, public or private. We're going to pay for the bill. And, by the way, that's number one from the humanitarian standpoint, that's great. And, even less importantly because ultimately we got to save people, it's going to be less expensive. And, we're not going to have the problems that we have where people are committing suicide. So many people every day. Vets are committing suicide because they can't even get to see the doctor to help them. One of the big reasons of vet suicide. So, we got to take care of that, and we're going to take care of the Obama -- we're going to repeal, replace, we're going to take care of everybody, OK? Thank you, good question.  OK. Yes, go ahead.

Well, it's really a great question, Ryan, because the thing that maybe surprised me the most is -- to me, taxes are very important. It's all taxes. It's such a big cost, or can be a big cost. Now we have a tax bill, or we have a tax law that's very complicated, but it's a big cost. If you would have told me going around -- and I've met so many small business owners, and so many large business owners, that if they had their choice between bringing our taxes down. Now, I have the largest tax decrease  of anybody that's run for office. Larry Kudlow loves it, a lot of people love it, but it's the largest tax decrease of any person running for office from the beginning, Republican or Democrat, OK? Hillary is going to have to double taxes. Is going to have to double your taxes. Hillary Clinton will double your taxes. We're bringing it down to 15 percent. We're simplifying the system. People that are making very little are going to pay nothing until they can break into the system. And, you'll save a lot of money bureaucratically that way. But, people that are making very little are going to pay nothing. Instead of sending in complicated returns, and paying nothing. But, we have a very beautiful plan, very simple, very simple, and very important. But, if you would have told me after speaking with thousands of people that regulations, if they had their choice, you can have either reduced regulation -- because people can't open businesses. They can't run their businesses. You can either have lower taxes or reduced regulation, people would take the regulation. That surprised me. That's how bad regulations are. You're looking at the energy business. The energy businesses is being put out of business. It's being put out of business. Many small business owners have come up to me saying, "Mr. Trump, I'm going to lose my business because the regulations." So, we're going to take care. We're going to cut down the regulations. I would be between 85 and 90 percent. OK? Now, some are necessary, I know, for safety, but some are necessary. But, I'll bet we can cut every year. Every year, it must be a cottage industry. They have people that just write regulations all day long. We're going to cut down regulations between 85 and 90 percent. We're going to take care of the environment. We're going to take care of safety, but we're going to let it be that we're going to be a growing, growing. When you look at 1.2 percent, that set a record. That means we're drowning. That means we're going in the opposite direction. So, we're going to take care of regulations, we're going to have very, very, big cuts in regulations. OK, another question? Who's got the mike? Go ahead, yes.

Hi.

Good. Good place.

Heroin.

Yeah, I will cut off the source.  Build the wall. I will cut off the source.  Good question. Very well asked. Thank you very much. Heroin. So, my first victory as a candidate, number one, was New Hampshire, which is a beautiful, beautiful place. Beautiful trees, beautiful meadows, beautiful little roads. And I got to know the people of New Hampshire very well, and I did unbelievable. We won in a landslide in New Hampshire. That was at the beginning when we had all these people competing. It's a great state, and they have unbelievable people, and I got to know the people. And, I'd go into meetings, and I'd say, "So, what's your biggest problem?" And they would always say, "Heroin. Heroin." I said, "What do you mean, heroin?"
They'd say, "Heroin." I'd say, "This doesn't look like it's a heroin like problem type place." They say, "Mr. Trump, it is flowing across our southern border. It's cheaper than candy. Our kids are being poisoned. They're being addicted, not only kids but kids. They're being addicted." They're dying and for some reason New Hampshire more than any other place talks about it -- that's why I'm so glad you asked that question. But -- heroin. So I said, "So where do you think it comes -- what's the source?" It's the southern border. It comes through the southern border. I said, "Let me tell you. If I win, I'm going to stop it. I'm gonna stop it." Now we had 16, 500 Border Patrol agents who are unbelievable people. Who if they didn't endorse me would have a much easier job, because all they have to do is stand there and people walk right through them. Right? With me they're gonna stop people from coming into our country. OK? They're gonna stop them. And they're not gonna have to work that hard because of the wall. I asked them, "How important is the wall?" They said, "Very important, very important." New Hampshire told me about heroin. And I said "Wow." And I said, "If I win, I'm gonna stop heroin from coming into this country and there are going to be big repercussions and I'm gonna get the government of Mexico and other governments to stop it or they've got problems." With all the money we give them, they'd better take better care. They're not taking care of us. They're not taking care of us. You know I've talked about trade deficits. We have a massive trade deficit with Mexico. That doesn't include the drugs that are coming across. We get the drugs, they get the money. Like this. Big vans coming across. Drugs coming in, money going out. Those days are over, folks. Those days are over.  So I won New Hampshire. I then went down to all different places. We did great in Massachusetts, home of Tom Brady. We love Tom Brady. But we did great in Massachusetts, we did great -- sort of everywhere. But I see what a huge problem -- it's not just in New Hampshire. It's all over the place. Heroin is all over the place. Mothers and fathers are losing their children. And heroin is a very addictive thing. It's very hard to get out of that addiction, of heroin. It's very, very hard. And that's the other thing we're gonna do. We're gonna take all of these kids and people, not just kids, that are totally addicted and they can't break it, we're gonna work with them, we're gonna spend the money, we're gonna get that habit broken. But we're not gonna let this crap come into our country and poison our youth and poison our people and it comes in mostly from the southern border. And Hillary Clinton isn't gonna do that. Number one, she's not strong enough to do it. She wouldn't have a clue. So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. November 8th. You've got to go and vote. I'll be back. I'll be back so much you'll be sick of me. But November 8th, you have to go and vote. We've got to win this election. This is a big one. Ohio is a very important state, we have to go, we have to win this election. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. 

Thank you. So we have tremendous crowds of people outside.  Would anybody like to give up your seat?  D. 
So I think what we're going to have to do is a little different. You know we have been so crowded, there's something going on big, even bigger than before because every place we go we have these massive crowds. Yesterday, we were in Ohio, we were in Pennsylvania and Harrisburg and we had crowds that were so enormous, so much bigger than the venue. So we're gonna have to start using the basketball arenas, don't you agree?  You know, we have -- outside, we have like thousands of people. They're going crazy because they can't get in. So bear with us but I did get to wave to them OK? So it was good. But these are great people. You know. Something very nice just happened to me. A man came up to me and he handed me his purple heart.  Now, I said to him now, is that like the real one or is that a copy?  And he said that's my real purple heart, I have such confidence in you. And I said man, that's like -- that's like big stuff. I always wanted to get the Purple Heart. This was much easier. But I tell you, it was such an honor and maybe I can bring him up on the stage Lieutenant Colonel Louis Dorfman, I just have to. 

So I said Lieutenant Colonel would you like to say something? He goes no, sir. I'd like you to just keep saying what you've been saying. It's amazing.  What an honor, what an honor. That was great. So thank you all for being here. We're gonna have a little fun this morning and we're going to be back in Virginia a lot. We have to win Virginia.  You know, I have a club in Virginia, do you all know my club? Trump National.  And if we could do to the United States what I did to that, boy would we have a country. There'd be nothing like it anywhere, ever, in history. But you know, I took over a club what, 10 years ago? And it was on the Potomac River and it's right next door. And in fact, I wish we did this out at the golf club, to be honest with you. Right on the Potomac. Maybe we'll do that, the next one let's do it on the Potomac, I don't know, do it, right? Right?  We'll do it outside, on the Potomac, by the American flag. You know, I have tremendous acreage there, we have like almost 800 acres and it's got two clubs, two courses. We have the PGA coming next year for a big, big, big tournament and it's the best there is in the tri-state. It's one of the best golf courses in the country and it's been a tremendous success.D. 
Well, I took it over, it was great acreage but it was not so great, right? And we blew it up and built new and it was -- it's been a fantastic success and it's in Loudon County. And therefore I can't imagine that the people of Loudon are going to be voting for crooked Hillary Clinton. She doesn't do anything, because -- I've --  D. 
Yeah -  D. 
So did you see over the weekend Fox, Chris Wallace, where she lied, where she said the FBI Director said like everything was just perfect, it wasn't exactly - I mean she lied, she pure and simple - she only knows to lie. She really does, only knows to lie. But she lied, and it's a big story. It's become a big story and that's amazing. It's amazing that they covered because the press is so totally dishonest, OK? So totally dishonest. And there is nothing like it, I've never seen dishonesty like that. And they're pushing her like crazy because it's establishment stuff and we have to make change. You know she's now calling herself an agent of change. She's been doing this for 30 years. You know numbers just came out for her where she raised like $50 or $60 million and 20 people gave it. I think it was - let's see 20 people gave her $60 million in her fund. $60 million from 20 people. I want to get a list of those 20 people. Oh those 20 people, I want to find out who they are, I want to find out how many I know. I want to find out - I want to find out how many I know. But I'll tell you what, 20 people gave her $60 million. And that's what I've been saying folks. Look I know the game better than anybody and the game is played that way. They own her. They own her. They will do whatever's good for them. If they have a company that wants to move plants into Mexico, she's going to say - first she'll say that's no good. And then she'll say oh I see. They helped me I have to let them do it, because her handlers - that's what they are is handlers -- they write her speeches, they write everything, she doesn't give a talk like this with no teleprompters, she gets up and she has teleprompters, she gets on the stage for 20 minutes, she reads something and she leaves. She goes back home and goes to sleep. That's what she does. She reads it. She goes home. She goes to sleep. And that's OK, I'm not knocking it, but the 20 people, think of it, so you have 20 people giving $60 million, it just got announced or it's being announced today. But we're announcing something even more special. We're announcing that we're going to have more than $35 million from a group of people like almost 60,000 people averaging 61  this doesn't happen to Republicans. You know most Republicans, I mean I think all, if they ever did that they'd have like three people giving $12 and they'll say that's about as good as we're going to do. We're going to have close to 60,000 people, and it's going to be, think of it, it averages $61 approximately. I guess it's going to be filed later or tomorrow or something, but it averages $61 each. And we'll have $35.8 million but I think it's going to even be higher than that, because it's not totally tabulated. But it's going to be higher than that. And that doesn't include other money that we're getting from the RNC and the Republican Party, and it doesn't include the money that I put up, because I put up a lot of money to fund my own campaign. And -- D. 
- a lot. I think I'm into this for over $60 million - over $60 -- $60 million, if you don't vote for me, look at the money - I'll probably be in for $100 by the time I finish. Think of it $100 million cash -

OK good, thank you. I'll be in for over 100, and think of it, no tax deduction. See, everything I do, I think tax. After tax, before tax, but no deductions. But I'll be in for over $100 million when it's all finished, or thereabouts. And it's a lot of money, that's a lot of money, and nobody else does that. Other rich people don't do that either. Not that many rich people run because they're told if you're rich and if you're successful you can't run for political office because they'll kill you. And I said I agree, I do agree. I think I'm a testament to either never do it or do it. I will say this -- I will say this, it's been unbelievable. It's been -- the journey from June 16, coming down on the escalators, it's been an unbelievable event. I came down with Melania on that escalator and I want to tell you...  Everybody loves Melania.  They love Melania. She's a good person, I'll tell you that. She's smart and I thought she gave an unbelievable speech, unbelievable presentation. Unbelievable.  And Ivanka did the introduction, unbelievable job.  And Tiffany and Don and who do we have here today? We have Eric.  Eric, where's Eric? Eric come here.  Eric Trump, everybody.  E. 
Wow, this is a great crowd, wow. Well, listen we are, and I say this all the time, but we're so proud of my father. It's an honor to be in Loudoun. In fact, him and I, when I came out of college, the first job we worked on together was the great golf course that we have here. And the two of sat there and we put a tremendous amount of time and effort into rebuilding it and we had a great time and it was kind of the perfect -- perfect first opportunity for a son to work with a father and I've learned so much from this man. He's been such an incredible father and mentor and boss and friend and every other word that you could put on it. He's just the best and he will do a great job for this nation. He will do such a great job for all of you and we are so, so, so immensely proud of him. So, with that, I give you back to the big guy, thank you so much Loudoun County.  D. 
He's a good guy. He's done a good job.  He's in there pitching  and I thought the Republican National Convention was better than the other one, OK?  I think my kids were great, I thought everybody did great. I actually thought it was better and we had more people watching the final night because that was the speech, that means a lot, by millions, but I will tell you, I will tell you, yes. Friend or foe? Probably friend. Thank you. All right. Your 15 seconds of fame. Well now that Bernie's out, we don't have the -- doesn't happen anymore, it's like amazing, it's -- you know the safest place to be anywhere, is at a Trump rally, that's true.  Safest place to be. I mean I'll just tell you something, you don't even know you're doing it but here we are. We have chairs, right? Everybody's standing. D. 
Everybody's standing because we have -- it's excitement. There's like an excitement in the air. You have seats and everybody stands. If you want, you can sit down. But everybody said  -- they don't want to sit down -- but we have such fun considering we have a very bad subject you know the country is in trouble. But were going to make it good you know a lot of people thought my speech was dark. The -- the haters -- no only the haters we got great marks -- but the haters said well he did a good job, his delivery, everything was good but it was dark. And I said, it wasn't dark, I talk about radical Islamic terrorism.  I talk about...  I talk about drugs pouring across the border, I talk people coming in that aren't supposed to be here, I talk about crime, I talk about our police being shot, we love our police and we have to protect our police.  I talk about our veterans because our veterans are being treated horribly.  When you hear twenty-two suicides a day that's inconceivable, twenty-two suicides a day. Our veterans are being treated horribly, were going to turn that around so fast your head is going to spin.  People..  People waiting in line for 5, 6, 7 days, the veterans, our great people and that's why maybe the lieutenant colonel did that. I mean its such an amazing thing. I -- he showed it me and I said, here thank you very much, here's a -- no, Mr. Trump I want you to keep it. I said, "keep it?" I mean these are incredible things that happen, these are incredible people that I meet. And thinking about lieutenant colonel, thinking about our military -- our military is totally depleted, totally depleted. Our military is not being funded properly, we don't have enough money going in. We need a strong military, we need a powerful strong military.  When you look at what's happening -- when you look at what's happening around the world and when you look at the hatred, think of it, we are like the whipping post for many, many countries on trade, they kill us on trade. But in every way they don't respect us, China is building this massive, massive military complex in the South China Sea. They didn't get environmental impact statements by the way, they just...  They said on Monday morning were going to start building, and on Monday afternoon they started, you knows that's the way it works right? We would -- we could never do that because we would have to environmental impact statements -- would 30 years then they would reject it.  We don't do things like that and you know that's fine. They're not supposed it do it -- they're not supposed to do it, they don't respect us. Now very simply, we have tremendous power with China. Some of the top people in the world representing China have called me and one of them in particular, said "You know Mr.Trump? I thought you were so wrong a year ago. I heard your very strong rhetoric on trade with China and everything with China." And you have to understand China is great as far as I'm concerned, I want to get along with China -- by the way wouldn't it be great if we got along with Russia? Wouldn't that be great?  If we actually had a relationship with Russia, instead of all the fighting and money and the problems and if we could get Russia and others to partner up and go and knock the hell out of ISIS. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that be a good thing?  These people...  These people are so obsolete. You know these people, you know sometimes they'll say oh could I have a list of your -- the people that you're consulting with. I said, "Well you're not going to like it because these are people that aren't involved currently."D. 
Well why aren't they involved currently? They said because look at the world, it's a mess. I don't wanna use the people that are involved currently. Look at the world, it's a mess. Look at what happened in the Middle East. Look at what's going on with North Korea. And look at what's going on with -- we have a mess out there. We have a total mess. Because I'll give names that are better and they'll say but these people haven't been involved and I said who wants the people that are currently involved? Nothing's working out. Nothings working out. Look at Libya, look at Syria, look at the migration, look at Iraq, what a mess. Look at -- look at Afghanistan, what a mess. Look at everything. If we didn't do anything with Iraq, if we never went there, if our presidents went to the beach we'd be much better off. If they just went every single day to the beach and took it easy, let Obama go to the golf course. But -- but you know what? We'd be better off. And then the way Obama got us out of the war was a disaster. We're going to get out on a certain date. The enemies sat back and they said nobody could say that, nobody. Actually, they thought it was a form of camouflage. Actually, they didn't believe it until it happened. He actually said when they're getting out. But they laid back and then after we left you -- you see what's happening. So look, we have people that don't know what they're doing. Hillary Clinton will be worse. She'll be worse. OK? Hillary Clinton will be worse. She has bad relationships with people like Putin. I'll give you an example. She has terrible relationships with Putin. This is a nuclear country we're talking about. Russia, strong nuclear country. And so are we. But their stuff is newer. Their stuff is newer. So she's looking at -- they have more -- I don't even want to say it -- they have a lot more, OK? So you know, she wants to play the tough one. She's not tough. She's not tough. I know tough people, she's not tough. I mean she's -- she's just -- she's doing the handlers, they push her from place to place that's all it is. You saw her speech the other night. I mean they talk about presidential, do you think she looks presidential? I don't think so.

I don't think so. So -- so you know, she wants to play the role of the tough guy against Putin and Russia and she wants to play not tough, not tough. She should be tough on trade, OK? Because right now we are being ripped off on trade like nobody has ever ripped us off in history. You look at our trade deficits with China. Hundreds, I mean just take a look -- the numbers, five -- think of this. Five hundred and five billion dollars? Look at our trade deficits total, more than $800 billion trade deficits coming out of this area, by the way. Coming out of the state of VA and every place else. I mean I've gone through -- I won so many states. And we won in landslides or I wouldn't be here. Look, if I didn't win, this system was not set up for somebody like me to come in and exert brains and common sense, OK? It wasn't set up for that. It's set up for politicians.  And if I didn't win in massive landslides, I mean I won by a landslide. Got 14 million almost 14 million votes. That's more than anybody has ever gotten in the history of the Republican Party. And remember...  And that's with 17 people. People keep forgetting, that's with 17 people and yet we had -- you know when Ronald Reagan who we loved. But when other people ran, they'd run against one or two people, or three people.D. 
And it's a lot different. Seventeen people, we broke the all-time record. I think we're gonna do so great and I see some great polls. I see one from -- from the Los Angeles Times, just came out, where we're ahead by four or five points. I see one from CNN where we're down. I think these polls I don't know there's something about these polls. There's something phony. You know I watch CNN, they are so negative all day long, it's all Trump all day long, and you know what their ratings are going down, and their ratings are going to start to go down big because I don't do interviews for them. They're doing a big documentary on me now. They have one problem: they need an interview from me, so let them do it without me, who cares. But they're very unfair. All day long it's negative. In fact I have some great things that have happened, right? And they'll cover it in a negative manner, so it sounds negative, great stuff. Great stuff. Even when I was winning -- I was winning by tremendous numbers, we had numerous people left, and I'd get like 42 percent of the vote with many people, getting 42 percent is impossible. I get 42 percent they say why hasn't he hit 50? I said well they're 11 people, how do you get 50. You understand right? No, but CNN treats me so badly it's unbelievable. And you know what I don't watch it anymore, I don't watch. You know you learn to live good, you learn to stay healthy, you learn to have a good common smart mind by turning off the negative does that make sense? Turn it off, don't fight it, turn it off. Just turn it off. But CNN treats me so badly, I mean the New York Times, which I call the failing New York Times because it's failing, it's losing a fortune. And it will be - I think it's out of business in three years, maybe somebody's going to buy it for a little while until they lose all that money, but they'll buy it for a little while and they'll keep it as - you know some rich guys going to buy it. But the New York Times, which is - it could do worse, I mean frankly that wouldn't be bad if somebody bought it -- but the New York Times is failing badly. They write stories that are so bad about me, and you know all my life I've probably been on the cover of the Times a few times, right? Now if I have two stories or three stories a day on the cover - today I have two stories, both ridiculous stories - but today I have two stories -- for  the front page. I mean I guess they use me to sell newspapers, but they are so dishonest. The reporting is so dishonest. I won't get into individual reporters names, because I'd like to - I could tell you the good ones and the bad ones. And they have a couple of good ones over there, but they are such a dishonest newspaper. They want Hillary Clinton to win so badly they cry, they beg, they beg. The editorials are unbelievable. I mean here's a woman who is a total thief, I mean she's a crook, she's a crook, and she lies more than any human being I've ever seen. And she's got no gravitas, and by the way, she's got a bad temperament. She's got a temperament of a loser. I mean I'm going to get the Barack Obama clips when he beat her. Eight years ago Barack Obama said things about her that were so bad, and today I just said, do me a favor look them up because I remember how bad. Now all of a sudden he's supporting her. And you know look it's a hope, because she's going to keep Obamacare, she's going to let people continue to pour into our country and we have no idea who the hell they are. She's going to let the Syrian refugees come in and we don't know if they're ISIS, we have no idea. It's going to be the all time great Trojan Horse -- they come in by the thousands. And she wants - hard to believe, actually it was funny -- I actually said it was 500 percent and the press said I was wrong, they said it was 550. You believe that? They actually even corrected me on that. D. 
But 550 percent more coming into the country that are coming in right now. Think of it. So someday, it always happens, look at France, look at Germany, look at what's going on with people blowing themselves up in a bar. With people shooting, look at Paris, look what happened in Paris, 130 dead, many, many people still in the hospital, they'll never be - they'll never be recovered -- never be recovered. But you just take a look at what's happened and you tell me that we have to be weak. Weak and ineffective and that we have to allow tens of thousands of people to pour into our country. She wants 550 percent more people. Think of it, 550 percent more people coming in from that region that are coming in under Barack Obama. And you know they're put all over the country, you don't even know where the hell they are. So we're going to have problems like you have never seen, mark my words, I've been a very good prognosticator. I've called a lot of good things and bad things, but I've called them. But mark my words, you're going to see some bad stuff. We need strong borders. We need strong borders.  We can't have people coming in from Syria that have bad intentions and we don't know who they are. And if we do, we are really a very, foolish nation. Look at what's happening with Germany. The crime wave over there -- Merkel's not going to be elected. You know Brexit, I predicted Brexit. Remember? I was the only one. So they were given a 20 percent chance in Las Vegas and the bookies over there, they were saying 20 percent chance. I said I think it's going to win. I took such heat, remember? I took such heat. I won and they gave me -- even though I won they all said bad things. Oh, they said I was grandstanding because I won. I just -- they said who's going to win? I said I think they're going to pull out. They're going to pull out of the union, the U.K. is going to pull out of the union. So I said, the European Union. So I said that's going to happen. And the reason is, I'm there, I have a lot of property in the U.K., great property, fantastic property - Turnberry - I have so many great properties. But you know what? I felt just -- I had a feel, and I'm not there much, I may never it again. If I win, I may never see my property -- I may never see these places  again. But boy is Eric and the kids going to have a good time, right? They're going to have a good time.  But, because I'm going to be working for you, I'm not going to have time to go play golf and...  Believe me, folks.  But I had a feeling. I said I think U.K.'s going for independence because they don't want to have people pouring into their country that they don't know where they are, who they are. They have enough. They have enough. And they've had enough. And they voted and it was a shock. And you know what, they're better off. And you watch, other countries in the European Union are going to follow. Because they were forced to take people and now it's getting to be catastrophic proportions. And you watch what happens to Angela Merkel, who I always thought of as a very good leader, until she did this. I don't know what went wrong with her. I don't know what went wrong. Angela, what happened? What happened Angela?  And you take a look at what's going on in Germany, the real facts, OK. I have friends that live in Germany, for years they were so proud. They were saying this is the country, Donald, this is so great, this is the -- people now tell me they're going to leave Germany. Leave. I said what are you talking about? We're going to leave. They take in millions of people and they don't know anything about and what's going on, you know the terms of what's going on. The women have heard all about what's going on, OK? Let me tell you folks, we are allowing thousands and thousands of people into our country. I've spoken to the best law enforcement people that we have, who are great people, and they said there's no way to properly vet these people. There's no way.D. 
Because we don't know where they really come from, they have no paperwork so what they do is they make up paperwork. Everybody makes up paperwork. Remember when they stole our passport machine? Remember? They have a passport machine that's better than the stuff we have. OK? These are smart people by the way. This is not -- these are smart people. These are very smart people. And I have a bigger heart than anybody in this room or as big. We wanna do safe zones in Syria, I will get the Gulf States who are not doing much, believe me. The Gulf States have nothing but money. I'm gonna get them to pay. We are $19 trillion; we're not paying for it. We're not pay -- they're gonna pay, they are gonna pay. We are gonna get the Gulf States to pay for it. They're gonna pay. Don't forget, without us the Gulf States won't exist. They won't exist. So we're gonna get the Gulf States to pay .  And we're gonna be the smart country again. But we're not gonna let this happen, where all of a sudden our cafes start blowing up, our movie theaters start blowing up, full of people and all of the other things that you've been seeing all over the world, I mean all over the world. Who would've believed that horrible scene in Nice, who would've believed a think like that's even possible? Just driving a truck down, killing everybody, running all over everybody. You know what they were screaming? They were screaming something that they always seem to scream OK? And I'll tell you what, it's not going to happen here. We're going to be very, very tough, and very, very smart.  And we can be, folks -- we can be the stupid people and we can be the politically correct people and guess what? We're not gonna have much of a country left. Believe me, OK?  So that we have to have it, so look. Stop  with  it . You know a lot of bad numbers right? A lot of bad numbers. Hillary said she wants to keep it the same but she's gonna change, you noticed she's saying I wanna keep it the same but we gotta change. First of all, she can't change. She's -- she's been doing it for 30 years. You know II say if she wants to change, why didn't she change? She's been doing this a long time. Her husband signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world, probably, and I really mean that, I'm not exaggerating: NAFTA. The worst -- now, they wanna do TPP, Trans-Pacific Partnership. It's going to be as bad as NAFTA if not, worse. Numerous countries, documents that are 5,000 pages long. Our people haven't even read the documents, OK? I wanna do individual country, I like trade. Individual countries boom, boom, boom, if they do a bad job with us -- you have to see what this TPP looks like with the lines. Line, line, lines all over the place, looks like a jigsaw puzzle. Simple, simple deals are tough enough, complicated enough simple. Boom, individual countries. We're rewarding people that have treated us badly and they're going in with people that have treated us well  meaning countries. I want individual countries. And if they do something bad or they devalue their currency so that our companies can compete because you're losing all your jobs, I mean I just left Pennsylvania, I just left Ohio, I just -- I'm going to be very soon in Michigan. Upstate New York is a disaster area, I mean you look at these -- you look at these big, beautiful plants that are just rotting. They're just rotting. I flew into Harrisburg, Pennsylvania yesterday and I looked down and I looked at -- it look like a war zone where you have these massive plants. And you could see 25 years ago vibrance  -- families being taken care of, work, education, healthcare, people working. It's all in Mexico, now. The businesses have moved to Mexico and other places. But between China. Mexico, others, they've taken our businesses. Vietnam, very big right now, really taking over. I mean they're doing a great job for them not for us. Vietnam's a hot one right now, take a look. D. 
But we're not gonna let that happen, we're not gonna let it happen. We're gonna be smart. When a company moves and wants to move as an example to Mexico we're gonna wish them luck. But when they wanna sell their product back into this country we're gonna say sorry but you have a 35 percent tax to pay to get your product back in and when we do that they're not gonna move, they're not moving. They're not going to move.  Because we will have taken the "economics of moving" away from this country. And I've watched for years, I've watched for years, more that just Obama, I've watched for a long period of time, president's saying, and politicians saying how do we keep our companies, because they're moving, they're just leaving. Remember they did the low interest loans, they don't need money. They did all sorts of tax abatements . They don't want tax abatements . I'm doing the ultimate, I'm saying you make a product outside of the country and when you leave and when you fire all of our people and you're going to now make that product in -- as an example Mex -- no, there are other places -- but when that product comes across the border you're going to pay a 35 percent tax. And here's what's going to happen. For the most part they're not going to move, OK. I think very few are going to move, because you've taken the whole point out. But they're not going to move. Number one very important, they're not going to move, and if they do move, we're going to make a fortune OK. So it's OK. In fact sometimes you say please move, please move, we'd like you to -- we'd like you send plenty of product in here. When China devalues it's currency, they're making it impossible for our companies to compete. But China doesn't want -- and I'm very close China, I have the biggest bank in the World as a tenant of mine in New York, the biggest in the world a Chinese bank. Don't worry about that baby I love babies.  I love babies. I hear that baby crying and I like -- I like it, what a baby. What a beautiful baby, don't worry, don't worry. The mom's running around like -- don't worry about it, you know. It's young and beautiful, and healthy and that's what we want. OK, but look -- look China, when they devalue -- when China devalues it's currency they take our guts out. And they do it so often, they do it so often. They're constantly devaluing their currency. And they always wait until like it's a bad time, like we have a problem with Iraq, we have a problem with Afghanistan, every time we have like a big problem they always devalue. And a year and a half ago they devalued the biggest devaluation they've done in 20 years. The biggest in 20 years. And I said man how do they get away -- but we had a problem -- we were doing other things, OK. So when China does that we have fight back. Now here's how you fight back, because we can't fight back any other way. We have the piggy bank, they have ripped us to shreds, ripped us absolutely to shreds, actually I was only kidding you can get the baby out of here.  That's all right, don't worry. I think she really believed me that I love having a baby crying while I'm speaking, that's OK. People don't understand, that's OK. But so you have a situation where a great country like China which is a massive -- which has really taken over now if you look. You look at the numbers, you know a year ago they passed us. If you would have said 10 years ago, 15 years ago that China would be passing us I would have said it's absolutely -- anybody would have said it's impossible. We've allowed them to pass us. Now when we have our manufacturers wanting to go to China, they can't get in, number one. Number two if they do get in they have to pay a massive tax. When Chinese companies want to sell to us, no tax, come on in fellas, we're stupid, we're stupid. Then they devalue.D. 
I had a friend, he was catching up with China, and he was really starting to compete. He's a very, very close  -- conscious guy, it was hard for him, but he's a really good manufacturer, and then all of a sudden they did a massive devaluation -- boom -- and he's back to ground one. It's like you know you take two steps forward, three steps back. Guess what happened to him? The guys phenomenal he can't get his product into China. When he finally starts to be competitive, they devalued again. And in TPP -- now China is not in TPP -- but it works the same thing with other countries. Their single greatest toom  is devaluation of the currency -- of their currency. We don't even have a clause in the agreement to cover it, okay? And because of the complexity -- 5,000 pages, nobody's going to read it and if you want to get out you can't because there's so many countries involved. So I say "One, one, one, one, one -- you do 15, you do 20, you do what  everybody and if they don't behave, meaning if they're not good, if they take advantage of us we send them what we call a 30 day notice.  Please be advised...  Please be advised we are hereby terminating your agreement with the United States of America.  Because you cheated, you cheated.  You cheated on us and here's what's going to happen, now were are only dealing with one country. We no longer have to worry about you know lets bring this country to the tribunal of all the others countries -- nice and simple folks it's very complicated to start off with nice and simple. So out of the 5,000 pages, I'll bet we don't have one politician in Washington that's read even a page. And these other countries, smart as hell, smart countries by the way -- these are smart countries. They've read every word, every comma, every period, every paragraph, every sentence.

They didn't read Obamacare, she's right. Well there's an example, thank you very much I was just about to say that.  No but Obamacare is a great example. Obmacare was like 2,500 pages, not one politician read it and now were stuck with it. But don't worry were going to repeal it and replace it. But were stuck with it.  It should have died a couple of times, it should have died by our Supreme Court except one of our Republican presidents appointed a man, who kept Obamacare going. Shockingly right? And not one legal scholar can figure It out. It should have died the first time and it should have died the second time and we still have it. And that was a Republican appointee ok and speaking of appointees -- because there's been a few beauties  -- speaking of appointees I am going to appoint great justices of the Supreme Court. Great.  And...  You know I actually told a group, last night in Pennsylvania, I told a group, I said -- and we had such a crowd, we had -- we had thousands of people -- like outside today. I mean you don't believe it, outside today, seriously we cant use these rooms anymore this is bigger than its ever been. It's a movement we have going -- we have a moment going -- but outside...  And I told this group I said "This big, big" -- you know thousands of people I said "Listen even if people don't like me they have to vote for me." They have no choice -- even if you don't -- and you do like me I hope but, I said "Even if you cant stand Donald Trump, you think Donald Trump is the worst, you're going to vote for me." You know why? Justices of the Supreme Court if they pick -- if they pick judges, were going to end up with another Venezuela except just a bigger version, its going to be a disaster for this country.D. 
And I've already chosen 11 that were vetted and that are so good -- these are great justices. Federalist Society looked at them, Heritage looked at them, people that were -- are really highly respected and I'm going to pick from that group and we already have one before we start, Judge Scalia. And I want to get as many as I can in the mold of Judge Scalia because...  That's where we're looking. That's where we're looking, Justice Scalia, good man. And who knew that was going to happen? That was a surprise, people kept talking about different names but they didn't think him. And all of a sudden he's gone. That was shocking to people. So you never know what's going to happen. And I'll tell you, this could be the presidency with the most Supreme Court picks of any presidency in history. You'll probably have three, you could have four and you could even have five. Look, we have one before we even start, right? Judge Scalia. But you could even have five and can you imagine if Hillary Clinton picks five super-libs because what she is, is she's being pushed around by the Bernie Sanders crowd. Many of whom, are going to vote for us because of our trade policies, OK because they understand that trade is killing our country.  All right?  So, I want to go over a couple of facts before I do though, I want to just say this. Look, we have a movement going. This is beyond anything that anybody's ever seen. Commentators are saying on television, people that hate me, are saying on television that they have never seen anything like this, they call it the phenomenon. It's a phenomenon. They have never -- our crowds are much bigger than Bernie's were. And Bernie did good, Bernie was second, I will say that. Far greater. Hillary, last night in Harrisburg, where I had, I don't know 12,000 people, we had to send away thousands. Hillary had 800 people, OK? Now I don't know what it means, I mean maybe it doesn't mean anything. I think it should mean something, I think it should mean something.  I mean when you have crowds that are many, many times the size of your opponent, I would think that it would mean something. But we have these massive crowds. I mean I felt so badly about when I went through and I'm waving to everybody but they're all standing out there and I feel guilty about it. But here's the story, we have a movement going, it's an incredible movement. It's a movement like they say they've never seen in this country before. And I say it a lot because I have a lot of respect for him, Bill O'Reilly. He said it's the single greatest phenomenon. He called it the Trump phenomenon. It's the single greatest phenomenon, politically speaking, that he has ever seen in his lifetime. I mean that's -- you know, guy's seen a lot of stuff, right?  And Bret Baier said it. Bret Baier, good guy, said it. And Brit Hume who said it. He doesn't like me too much but he said that, or something similar. And people have said this, that what we are doing is one of the great political phenomena of all time but very importantly, it's one of the great movements of all time. We've got to finish it off. We've got to finish it off.  We've got to beat...  We've got to beat a dishonest machine, totally dishonest machine. You know as an example how Hillary got away with what she got away with recently. How do you get away with it? Everybody thought, oh wow she's guilty. However, now what she got away with was a disgrace, honestly. A disgrace to our country, but she got away with it. And who would think that that could have happened? And then on top of it she lies on Sunday saying, oh I was just actually fine. I did everything fine. And that was not said. You know it was said, very embarrassingly. Nobody could believe that happened. That whole thing was incredible, but we have to learn from it.D. 
It's a crooked system. It's a rigged system. We're running against a rigged system and we're running against a very dishonest media. The media's very dishonest. It's very, very dishonest.  What they don't take -- Patty Smith -- when they don't take Pat, whose an unbelievable woman and they give her virtually no air time, and they give other people unbelievable amounts of air. It's just so unfair, it's so unfair, we're running against a rigged press. We're running against dishonest people.  OK, really dishonest people.  And -- and hey look it was rigged against Bernie Sanders, you could see that from all of those emails. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, no no, but you could see it, it was a rigged deal. He never had a chance, the guy works so hard, and now he's got buyers remorse. You know you look at him, if he would have done nothing, if he would have just gone home and gone to sleep he would have been so -- because he made a deal with the devil, he made a deal with the devil. And he made a bad deal, and then she picks a Vice President that's the exact opposite of everything that Bernie represents. Now I don't agree with what Bernie represents, but I mean, honestly, it was almost 50 percent of their party. You would have thought she would have given him a little bit of a bone. She gave him nothing, she gave him nothing. So we have to get everybody out, Loudon County is so important. And really I'm a big employer here, I'm a big, big employer here.  And -- and everybody in this room -- everybody in this room knows how great that project is and how successful it's been because many of you -- whose been there, how many people have been there? It's one of the great projects in the country, all along the Potomac River, one of the great -- thank you -- one of the great projects in the country. So let's go over a couple of numbers because you have to see this to really believe it. And by the way, Hillary Clinton has not had a news conference I think it's in 242 days. She doesn't do news conferences because she can't. Because for a number of reasons, but number one she's so dishonest, she doesn't want the people peppering her with questions, so she doesn't do news conferences, it's a disgrace. I think it's 242 days, you know what that is -- and she probably won't have one, maybe she won't have one. Maybe we'll force her to have one, but she probably won't have one. So listen, since 2000 the number of unemployed people in Virginia has doubled. Now these are right out of the book so, statisticians OK. Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. Signed by Bill Clinton, one of the worst ever, OK. Hillary rammed through the job killing trade deal with South Korea in 2011. That South Korean deal is a disaster for us. But look at the people that give her money, and look how their involved in that deal. The US trade deficit with TPP members --- these are the members going into the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which Obama wants, which Hillary wanted, she called it the gold standard, but when she heard me talking about it she said she didn't want it. But as you're governor said, Terry McAuliffe, Governor of Virginia, he said don't worry, don't worry, let her get elected and she'll approve it. She'll make a couple of minor changes, she'll approve it.D. 
This was said, then they backpedaled, well he doesn't speak -- let me tell you Terry McAuliffe knows her better than Bill knows her. Terry knows her better than anybody, your Governor, he made this statement. OK, all right, so here's a couple of things that are just sort of amazing. President Obama has doubled the national debt since he's been in office. U.S. trade deficit in goods reached nearly $800 billion. In other words, we trade with people. You know, it's funny when I want to make good trade deals the press says oh, he's not a free trader. I'm a great free trader. I like free trade. But I like smart deals. Somebody said well, then what do you call yourself? Because I know free trade, I know fair trade, I know every form of trade ever thought up by man. Believe me, it's meaningless. So they said what are your policies? I said my policies are very simple, I wanna make great deals for our country OK? Very simple.  You can call it fair trade, free trade or any other of the other 10 ten names. I want great deals for our country. And I was endorsed by Carl Icahn some of the greatest business leaders in the world. And we have to use our great business people to negotiate the deals. Because we're using political hacks to make deals and it's a joke. The Chinese people look at us like we are the dumbest people. They are using their smartest, their brightest from the time they're three years old, you know they have like a pyramid, right? Boom, boom, boom, they use the guys right on the top. And they walk in and deal with our clowns and they say I can't believe we've gotten away with this. For years and years and years, we've rebuilt China with our trade. We've rebuilt China. We have so much power over China and if they don't behave we throw a 10 percent tax on goods coming in from China. We will make a fortune. And you know what? They're gonna send the same goods. Then what are they going to say, we're not gonna send because we're not gonna pay a 10 percent tax? But when they raise their currency -- when they do things with their currency, they manipulate. And they knock out their currency. And they devalue their currency and they do all their masters, they're grand masters at currency and a currency manipulation. We have the ultimate -- we say thank you very much. Now, just so you understand, when we send things to China they charge us a tax. So people would say Donald Trump is not a free trader. I'm a free trader. But it's gotta be a two-way street, right? I mean it's gotta be a two-way street. They're killing us.  $23.8 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force right now. In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the workforce OK? Nearly 4 in 10 African American children are living in poverty while 58 percent of African American youth are not employed, OK? Two million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took office. Now, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. We're gonna bring jobs back.  Thank you, that's very nice. We're gonna bring jobs back. That's why we had a very good poll recently with the Hispanics. And it was an amazing poll. And you know -- way up from what people thought. Because people want jobs. And by the way, the Latinas, the Hispanics, they don't want -- and you understand this, they don't want people pouring into our country taking their jobs, taking their houses. They want -- they wanna have security, they really want the wall. They want the wall.  We're gonna have a strong border and we're going have the wall. We're going have the wall.  Oh we're going build a wall, don't even think about it. We're going build a wall and you know -- you know and I say it and I mean it, Mexico's paying for the wall folks.  You know, if Mexico wanted to, they could stop all of the problems that are coming into our country, including the drugs. New Hampshire -- which I won -- I got to know the people so well up there. What's your number one problem? Heroin coming from the southern border. And I said doesn't make sense, you go to South Carolina, North Carolina. No matter where. Here, you go no matter where, we have drugs pouring into our country. We could stop it. You see, our politicians don't wanna stop it because there are people out there that make a lot of money with that and they take care of the politicians. They don't wanna stop it. They could stop it. But Mexico could stop it, without even us, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed me recently, OK?  Sheriff Joe, endorsed me. Sheriff Joe Arpaio.  From Arizona, which is great. We're gonna get it going. But we're gonna build a wall, Mexico's gonna pay for the wall and some politician came up to me. Number one, you can't build a wall. I said really, China just build a 13 -- 2,000 years ago -- built a 13,000 --- China built a 13,000 mile long 2,000 years ago. We have 1,000 miles that we need. It's 2,000 miles but we need 1,000 you have natural barriers. We need 1,000 miles. So China can do 13,000 mils 2,000 years ago -- and that's the serious wall by the way in case anybody hasn't seen it. And we can't do -- we can't do a wall that's 1,000 miles and we have Caterpillar tractors. And we're gonna use Caterpillar, by the way. We're not going with Komatsu. We're not going with Komatsu.  So here is one of the most depressing stats. According to the second quarter GDP report, you saw this yesterday, the economy only grew at 1.2 percent. This is the third straight quarter that the economy has grown under two percent and is the single weakest -- weakest of any economic expansion in more than 70 years. So we have the weakest expansion in 70 years and it's going back -- now it's going down because the numbers are getting worse and worse all the time. If they get real bad I hope it happens fast so I don't have to -- they'll all blame me. You'll end up winning and your first day the economy crashes because of some incompetent people before me well, we're gonna straighten up. But we'll certainly blame them. OK, we're going to blame them.  No but think of it, the weakest in 70 years, 70 years. I mean it's terrible. Now, here's another one. U.S. home ownership, the rate fell, of ownership, to 62.9 percent in the second quarter. The lowest rate of home ownership in more than 50 years, terrible. Did Hillary mention any of these facts in her optimistic speech?

OK and we're not talking about the shooting of the police which by the way is at massive levels, massive levels. We're not talking about crime. In major cities, our crime is going through the roof. You look at what's going on in some of these cities, crime is up numbers that you wouldn't even believe. They don't talk about that, they talk about how everything's wonderful. Look, with Hillary you're gonna have four more years of Obama and you know what? If you have four more years of Obama our countries finished. It's finished.  Here's one that's an amazing -- here's one that's amazing. Household incomes are more than $4,000 lower than their levels in the year 2000. Think of it, household -- you're making $4,000 less now than you did 16, 17 years ago.D. 
Another one that's very common and out there, people -- many people in this room -- but people are making, in terms of real wages, less money today than they made 18 years ago. And they're working two jobs in many cases and that's because of Obamacare. Because Obamacare, it makes sense for employees to do part time workers. So you'll have a worker who's worked at a company for years and all of a sudden the boss goes up to him to say I hate to do it, with tears, and says I've got to make you a part time employee. Because of Obamacare. Its forced people to be part time employees. It's a horrible thing that's going on in this country. And you didn't hear that in Hillary Clinton's speech. You didn't hear that, you didn't hear that. You heard all is slowing stuff. It's a disaster. And then when you look at other countries, how they've built up their military -- look at Russia. How they've built up their military. Take a look at what they've done. Take a look at what they've done on the nuclear weapons front. How they built up their military and how we're so far behind and our equipment is obsolete in many cases, and we have jet fighters that are so old that they have to go to graveyards, airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for current jet fighters. And we have our pilots, our wonderful, incredible pilots saying it didn't use to be this way. And now they're older and they're going to leave and they're going to retire and they don't want to stay. They're so depressed at what's happened. But they're fighting, you saw the report, you probably all saw it. They had documentaries on television about how old our aircraft is in our services. And you have other countries, you look at China, what they're doing with their massive, with their massive installations that they're building in oceans. South China Sea, massive, we would never even think about it. No, we've got to get smart folks, we've got to get smart. We're falling way behind.  We're falling. And I can keep reading this stuff, it's just point after point, you're doing lousy over here by the way, hate to tell you, but point here's recent factory closings in Virginia, all right? Right? Kennametal, Ball Corporation, closed. Kennametal closed. Sandvik closed. Moved their jobs to Mexico. Let's see, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, yes. Smith Foods Inc. closed its plant, 400 workers gone. Anybody used to work for Smithfield?

That's true. I -- it's true. Stanley Furniture closed its plant in Vista. Laid off 400 workers, closed its plant. Moved their jobs to China and Canada. North Carolina has lost so many jobs. Pennsylvania has lost tremendous numbers of jobs. Ohio has lost 34 percent of their manufacturing jobs since China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. Folks, what are we doing? What are we doing? Are we -- we're being led by stupid people, folks.  And people that are controlled.  People that are controlled by special interests and lobbyists so here's the story. So we've got to build up our military, we've got to make great trade deals. I told you that no more, when our companies leave, they want to -- they think they're going to leave and sell us back-product from a different company with other employees from other nations, not going to happen. Not going to happen. I mean it's going to happen, but they're going to pay for it. There's going to be consequence. They're going to pay a tax, very simple. Now a lot of people think I'm not conservative because I want them to pay a tax. I think they're not conservative because they're stupid. D. 
OK, they're stupid.  And by the way, it's 100 percent foolproof. We're not talking about oh, maybe it will work. Can you imagine they used to go around and offer companies loans? And its not even funny. We'll give you an interest free loan if you stay. And a couple of companies took the money and then left because they forgot to say you had to stay. The lawyers didn't do too good a job. But look, look, we have to be the smart people again. We have to be -- and we don't have much of a choice because we are losing so many of our jobs and we can't take our factories and keep taking our factories and converting them into nursing homes. You know nursing homes are wonderful, but we have to make things again. We need jobs, we need jobs. It's wonderful. Nursing homes is wonderful. But we need jobs.  I see things happen where there's a couple of beautiful jobs up in New England, they've taken an old factory, they've converted it into -- and it's all fine. But we can't do that. We need manufacturing jobs. We need the income, we need the productivity, we need the future. We -- as you stand here right now, there are companies negotiating from Virginia, right here. They're negotiating to leave Virginia and move to Mexico and other places, as you stand here. Some of the people in this room work for companies that are right now under negotiation to get out. If I get in, that ends. Hillary won't do anything about it, she talks, she knows her way now, she's talking about trade. Did you notice two days ago she said, I've been talking about, we're going to re-negotiate NAFTA. And if they don't give us a great deal and if we don't re- negotiate a great deal, we're terminating NAFTA, we're getting out and we'll bring our jobs back a different way, OK? So...  The other day, now that was like, a horrible thing to say. Two days ago, Hillary Clinton said, we are going to start re-negotiating our trade deals. She can't do it. Number one, if she wanted to she can, but they wouldn't let her. Those people that put up all that money for her, those 20 people and there's plenty of more of them, they won't let her do it. She can't do it, if she wanted to, she can't do it. So she's just kidding all of you. So we're going to make America great again.  We're going to build up our military, so depleted. We're going to take care of our veterans, who have been treated horribly.  We're going to make phenomenal trade deals, we're going to make trade deals that bring jobs back, not trade deals where we lose our businesses and our jobs.  We're going to have strong borders, we're going to have the wall, Mexico's going to pay for the wall, and we're going to have people come into our country but they're going to come into our country legally, legally.  We're going to appoint great Justices of the United States Supreme Court.  We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.  We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.  And we're going to start winning again, folks. We're going to win on every front. I want to thank everybody in Loudoun County, I love this place, I'm here a lot. I want to thank everybody. I want to thank everybody in the state of Virginia. Virginia, we are going to be here so much you're going to be so sick of me, you're going to say, please keep him out of here, we'll vote for you, but please keep him out. I'm going to be in Virginia a lot, we're going to be here a lot.  And just so you know, we are going to be proud of our country again. We're going to put America first. We are going to start winning again. We are going to make America great again. Thank you very much, thank you folks. Thank you very much. Take care everybody. 

I want to tell you, you happen to have a truly great governor.  And he said something that really caught my imagination. He used the term "the queen of corruption." I think we're going to have to...  ...we're going to have to use that a little bit. She is the queen of corruption.  So, as you -- thank you, thank you. Thank you, man  thank you. Thank you very much. It's very nice. It's a very, very rambunctious and beautiful crowd, I will say.  Wow. That's a lot of people.  That's a lot of people, so thank you all very much. This has just been amazing. This has been an amazing, an amazing period of time. No matter what we do, no matter where we go, it's incredible. We were in Florida yesterday, two tremendous -- and just big, big arena sold out, packed, thousands of people outside couldn't get in. That's the bad news. But this is really nice. And I have to tell you I woke up yesterday, and I saw $400 million, different currencies -- they probably don't want our currency. Different currencies, $400 million being flown to Iran. I mean, folks, what's going on here? What's going on? What is going on? You see it. You don't believe it. $400 million in cash is being flown in an airplane to Iran. I wonder where that money really goes by the way, right? I wonder where it really goes. Well, it went to, one, either in their pockets, which I actually think more so or toward terrorism, probably a combination of both. So $400 million in cash, now you really -- who -- who can authorize even in terms of a president, who can authorize $400,000 in cash, different currencies. They didn't want the dollar. They wanted different countries, different currencies. They got a little of everything over there. Just  spread it around, right? I mean, how stupid are we -- how stupid are we to allow this to continue to go on, to see what's happening? And you know it's interesting because a tape was made, right? You saw that with the airplane coming in, nice plane. And the airplane coming in, and the money coming off, I guess, right? That was given to us -- has to be by the Iranians. And you know why the tape was given to us? Because they want to embarrass our country, they want to embarrass our country. And they want to embarrass our president because we have a president who's incompetent. They want to -- they want to embarrass...  ...they want to embarrass our president. I mean, who would ever think that they would be taking all of this money off the plane and then providing us with a tape. It's only for one reason, and it's very, very sad. So, we have a lot of problems in our country. We have border problems. People are pouring into our country. We have no idea who they are. We have people -- we're going to build a wall, folks. Don't worry about it. We're building, yeah .  Up here, you have tremendous heroin problems. You have tremendous problems, comes from the southern border, but you have tremendous problems. And I'll tell you what, we're going to get -- so we're going to build a wall. You know, we have another thing. We have 16,500 -- you can do whatever you want. Do whatever you want. Do whatever you want. Well, you have to say, you know, a Trump rally is the safest place in our country to be, believe me -- believe me, right?  We do say. But if we keep going the way it is, our whole country is becoming different. They're shooting our police at record levels. You saw where I said in my speech 50 percent higher, and then they went out, and they looked... Ain't that amazing? Ain't that amazing? Sorta rude . You know, when you think of it -- and what are we looking for? We want strong military. We want jobs. We want good education, health care, right?  We're all like looking for the first. We're looking for the same thing sort of you want to have a good life. You want to have a good life. You want safety, and then we have people interrupting constantly. But actually, it hasn't been happening much. It's happening a little bit today, but it hasn't been happening much. I sort of missed my protesters, you know.  And we don't get it from Hillary because there's no -- you know, the Bernie people had spirit. We don't get it from Hillary because they don't care. They don't care. But you look at what's happening in terms of our police where they're shooting our police at record levels -- 50 percent up. And I said 50 percent, it's actually much higher than that from last year. So, we need law and order. We have to have it. We have to have it.  We need law and order. We got to protect our police.  And our police have to be careful, and they have to do their job and they have to do it correctly, and they will do it correctly, but we have to take care of our police. I'll tell you. They're really going through a tough time.  So, I wrote a little thing down that I thought I'd have because in light of the $400 million that just got ripped away from our country, all right? And, you know, the real number -- you look at it, $150 billion, we got nothing. We got nothing. And they think they probably paid the $400 million for the hostages, which is even worse. And now since then, I don't know if you know, we have two more hostages right now. Why wouldn't they? We have two more hostages right now who were fairly recently grabbed, and they're in Iran. And I guess, what are we going to do with that one, right? So they do $400 million, gets flown at night into Iran. I think it's so sad and so disgusting. And you also wonder about a government, who can approve a thing like that? Will they take cash into a country and just hand it to them? Bushels and bushels of cash. And then you look at our country where we owe $20 trillion as I used to say 18, used to say 17. When I started, I was saying 16 and 17. Now it's 18 and 19. Now it's going to very soon be 20. It's going to be 22 very soon because we have a budget that is very, very expensive, but it doesn't take good care of our military. Our military is depleted, and we have to fix our military and I know for the -- for the Navy.  One of the reporters was talking about -- one of the reporters -- how do you feel about building ships because you have a lot of ships you're building up here, good ones, right?  So our Navy, as you know, has one of the lowest numbers of ships that they've had in decades and decades. And we've got to rebuild our Navy. We've got to rebuild our whole military, folks, and we're going to do it...  ...probably almost never have needed it more than we need it now with all of the people out there that don't like us very much. And we're going to be very strong, we're going to be very smart. We're going to build up our military. It's so depleted. We're going to take care of our Vets. We're going to take care of our Vets.  Our Vets -- our Vets are so badly treated. You look at what's going on where they wait on the line six, seven, eight days. Think of it. You're not a Vet, think of it. In the audience, think of it, six, seven, eight days. People are dying on the line waiting for doctors and committing suicide. The suicides are at numbers that nobody has ever thought possible. We're going to take care of our Vets. I put a plan, and people are loving the plan.  People are loving the plan. And if you're waiting, if you're waiting on the line for an extended period of time, you're going to walk outside, you're going to go to a doctor who's looking for business. You're going to go to a hospital, private or public, you're going to get taken care of and it's going to be less expensive. The government is going to pay the bill. It's going to be far less expensive than what's been happening. People are dying, waiting on the line for a simple pill or a simple prescription. They are dying. Our great Veterans are dying waiting on the line, and we're not going to do it. We're not going to do it.  No more, no more. So, I wrote a few things down and I -- to ISIS, OK, huge portions. We don't know. Is ISIS coming into our country? With all of the people that are pouring in, we have no idea who they are. We have absolutely no -- you know the harm they want to inflict. You look at what's taking place in our country -- San Bernardino and Orlando. And look at what -- what's going on all over the world. I mean, look at the World Trade Center. Look at what's happening. Look at what's happening. Oh, boy. The wildlife, so you look at what we've sacrificed and what we've given up, and the level of viciousness where heads are being chopped off, where people are being drowned in steel cages. We haven't seen this since medieval times. I mean, you know, I love history. We talk about medieval times and you would never have thought you would have seen the things we're seeing today, and it's gotten out of control. And Obama has let it get out of control. And then you have Hillary's made tremendous mistakes in every way. I guarantee you this, if Obama had it to do again, he would have never picture -- never as Secretary of State because he has gotten...  ...into such trouble with the decision that she probably made or convinced him to make that it's ridiculous. So, the Obama-Clinton foreign policy has handed huge portions of Iraq, Libya, and Syria to ISIS. I mean, huge portions, undermining the stability and strength in Egypt and empowered Iran as never before. Iran is like this major power. And when they made this horrible deal, why didn't they solve other problems with Iran? You know, Iran is fighting us in other places, right? They're fighting us in other places. Why we didn't we say, wait a minute, we're giving you back all of this money. We're giving you all. It is a horrible deal in every way. We got nothing in that deal. We got our hostages back and now we find out what we actually paid for the hostages and it was in cash, which is terrible, because that sets a terrible, terrible precedent. And it's just sickening and you'll have four more years of Obama if you elect Hillary Clinton...  ...four more years. The most important issues facing civilization right now is radical Islamic terrorism, and we have a president...  ...we have a president that won't use the term, won't say it. He won't say it. Maybe he doesn't believe it. He right now thinks that global warming is the greatest threat that this world has. So we've just seen many, many crimes getting worse all the time and as Maine knows, a major destination for Somali refugees, right? Am I right? Well, they're all talking about it -- Maine, Somali refugees. We admit hundreds of thousands, you admit, into Maine and to other places in the United States, hundreds of thousands of refugees. And they're coming from among the most dangerous territories and countries anywhere in the world, right, a practice which has to be -- has to stop, has to stop. This isn't like you're smarter than other people or...  ...this is a practice that has to stop. Not like we say, oh, let's do something. We want to be nice, and we want to -- as in the case of Syria, we'll build safe havens. We'll do something. We'll get other nations that are near the Gulf States as an example. They don't spend money.  They don't spend money. They don't take people. We take people. They don't take people and they're right there to spend money. Believe me, folks, they're going to spend money. They wouldn't be there if it weren't for us. So the Washington Times reported of a Somali refugee program in Minnesota that the effort to resettle large groups of Somali refugees is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the states -- I mean, the state is having tremendous problems -- its safety net and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting charges for Islamist terror groups. It's happening -- it's happening. You see it happening. You read about it. You see it and you could be smart, and you can be cunning and tough or you can be very, very dumb and not want to see what's going on, folks. All you have to do is take a look at what's happening in Germany, OK? It's a mess. It's a mess.  Take a look -- take a look at what's happening in France. Take a look at what's happening in France. Two weeks ago, Nice -- you remember in Paris. In Paris we had the disaster, 130 people viciously violently killed. And by the way, if you had some guns on the other side of that equation, it wouldn't happen. Believe me, you wouldn't have had the tragedy that you have.  Remember this, Hillary Clinton essentially wants to take away your rights under the Second Amendment. She wants to take away your guns. She wants to take away those bullets. She wants to take away your rights. Now the National Rifle Association not only endorsed me, they endorsed me, I think, earlier than anybody they have ever endorsed.  We need to protect our Second Amendment. We have to do it, we have to do it. Believe me -- believe me, you're going to have things happening with you -- if she gets in, remember, justices of the Supreme Court -- very important -- so it goes along with that Second Amendment because they'll be ruling very negatively...  ...if you put her there. Very important, I said to a friend of mine, I said, "Well, you have to vote." He's a Democrat, so you have to vote for me. Why? Number one, I'm your friend.  He said, "You'll be the first Republican I'll ever voted for that's, OK." But I said justices of the Supreme Court, she will put because she was forced so far left. She will put super, super Liberal judges into what could be four or five slots. I mean, you have one before you've even started -- Judge Scalia who's terrific, but you have a situation where she could have or the next president could have as many as five. More likely it will be three or four, but it's going to be perhaps a record number of justices of the Supreme Court. And if no other reason you have to go out and you have to vote for Trump, right?  So just few other instances, the Boston bombers, remember the Boston bombers? What a horrible thing that was. Arrived through the political asylum process, right? The younger brother applied for citizenship and was naturalized on September 11, 2012. The older brother had a pending application for citizenship. Oh, that's wonderful. We take them, right? We take them. And you see what happened. How violent and how vicious and how horrible was that? OK. And if they're not here, we don't have that incident, which killed so many and so badly wounded so many. And what I said -- and what I said is so true. So many of these -- you look at San Bernardino, what I said is so true, Second Amendment. If guns, a couple, one where on one of the people, two of the people, three of the people in San Bernardino so the bullets are flying in the opposite direction. Number one, they probably would not have made the attack.  And number two, if they were -- right? And number two, the carnage -- and it was carnage, 14 people killed, many, many people in the hospital even to this day it wouldn't have happened or it certainly would have been a lot less. And we have to get smart. This is the way the world works, and we have to get smart. And, you know, in Paris where they walked in -- and the same with San Bernardino, they walked in. No guns they knew, and they go boom, boom, get over, boom, boom, boom. 130, the other case 14, and we have many other cases. And this is all over the world now, this is now all over the world. And we are letting people come in from terrorist nations that shouldn't be allowed because you can't vet them. There's no way of vetting them. You have no idea .  This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time.  A Moroccan national who came to the United States on a student visa was arrested for plotting to blow up a university and a federal courthouse. Ubek , you know where that is. You know where it is? Uzbek refugee living in Idaho was arrested and charged with providing support to a terrorist organization in the form of teaching terror, and this is what they do -- teaching terror recruits how to build bombs. Wonderful, wonderful. I don't want them in this country. Wonderful, wonderful.  And by the way, you got to turn these people in. You got to turn -- you know, when you go to San Bernardino, they had bombs all over the floor of the apartment. People saw those bombs. They didn't turn them in. Those people are guilty of a crime believe me.  An immigrant from Syria who later applied and received United States citizenship was accused by federal prosecutors of planning to go to a military base in Texas and killed three or four American soldiers but preferably execution style. We're dealing with animals -- preferably execution style. A college student who immigrated from Somalia who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship attempted to blow up a Christmas tree with the lighting at a major ceremony in Oregon. An immigrant from Afghanistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship and a legal permanent resident from the Philippines were convicted for plotting to join Al-Qaeda and the Taliban in order to kill as many Americans as possible. Hillary Clinton wants to have them come in by the hundreds of thousands. Just remember, this has nothing to do with politics, folks. This is a whole different level. This has to do with pure raw stupidity, OK?  An Iraqi immigrant who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for lying to federal agents about pledging allegiance to ISIS and has traveled to Syria, wanted to kill as many Americans as possible, didn't care how, didn't care how, any way he could do it. Two immigrants from Pakistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship were sentenced to decades-long prison terms for plotting to detonate a bomb in the middle of New York City. An immigrant from Yemen who were, by the way, were fighting -- were fighting. Were working -- we're working with one side. We have no idea who this side is. You know, we spend billions and billions on equipment and guns and rifles, and then the enemy has them. We spend millions and tens of millions of dollars on all of this equipment. And as soon as the shots fired, you know, we always go -- we always seem to pick the wrong side in terms of winning because we don't win anymore. But, you know, Iran is on the other side of that, right? So you say to yourself, why -- you know, they want Yemen because of the border between Saudi Arabia. They don't want Yemen. They want what they want as they want the oil in Saudi Arabia. They have a very beautiful, big, big drill. When they look at it, right? So, here we are, $150 billion, and you say to yourself why, and they ask Secretary of State Kerry, why didn't they solve that problem? We're fighting and our side is fighting people led by Iran. Why didn't you solve that problem? Why didn't you make a deal when you're making this horrible deal that you made while we lost everything? We didn't get anything. That's a deal we didn't get anything. They say nuclear weapons, they'll have nuclear weapons much faster because of that deal than they would have had them otherwise. And now they can buy them with all the money they get and they can buy them. What do they have to do with them? They can buy them. They'll have nuclear weapons. Believe me, I've called a lot of shots right mostly, believe me. Mostly I've called them...  ...just about all right, including not going into Iraq in the first place and destabilizing the Middle East. But when Secretary Kerry who is probably better than crooked Hillary, but who knows? They both terrible. But when he said -- and when the president asked them about this, why didn't they solve their problem when they solved the other? He said, "It got too complicated." OK, got too complicated. Here's what we have, really complicated, get out. We don't want to fight over there. We're going to solve -- you solve the problem or you don't solve the problem. All right. An immigrant from Yemen who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for trying to join ISIS. He was also charged with attempting to illegally buy firearms and to try and shoot American military personnel as many as possible. OK. These are people we have coming into our country. And by the way, they are the ones we know about. There are so many that we don't know about. You're going to have problems like you've never seen just like I said. The one thing I predicted, I predict is you're going to have problems like you've never seen. We don't know where these people are. You know, when the government puts them around, we don't even, for the most part, very few people know where they even are. They don't even know where they are located. I'm telling you, I said it before, this could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. They're coming in. They're coming in.  And you have many more like that, many more -- thousands, thousands, thousands. We have more people right now being looked at by the FBI and others than we've ever had in the history of our country, OK? And it's impossible to do this. Thousands of people are being looked at and studied, thousands. And this is what we're living with. And she wants to allow 550 percent more than Obama has allowed coming into the country. So if you want to -- if you want to let her do it, folks, that's going to be your choice, but I think you're making a very big mistake. Hillary Clinton, furthermore, can never be trusted with national security.  Can't.  In fact, we're both supposed to be briefed in a not too distant future, and I'm saying you can't brief her.  You can't brief her. Let's protest. Her email scandal put our entire country at risk, made our sensitive secrets vulnerable to hacking by foreign adversaries. I mean, they hacked all over the place. They hacked. I guess, who's got them? She lost 33,000 emails. What happened? Thirty-three thousand, OK. So what -- what happened? How is it possible? First of all, what kind of a number is that? She said it was the wedding and yoga.  And then they accused her of lying. They said she lied. They said she was negligent -- all these things. And the other day this weekend, she went out and said, "No, no, no, I think you must have misunderstood." She's a big problem. I mean, she's -- she's -- I don't know. There's something going on there. Look, look. She has got a problem. Did you see this weekend when she was interviewed? She said, "No, I think you misunderstood. No, we're doing a lot." I've never seen -- has anyone ever seen a liar like that ever before? She's made everybody less safe. Those 33,000 emails are potentially a danger to our country. And if anybody thinks that was for a wedding and for yoga... ...and when she got away with that, I said, that's probably the greatest accomplishment that she has ever had in politics.  And I think it's a great insult to our country. I think it's a tremendous insult to our country and to law enforcement. I see policemen and they come up to me, and the policemen like me for whatever reason, OK, maybe because I like them.  And they're shaking their head. They're saying, "Mr. Trump was so embarrassed." It's such an embarrassment what took place. Thirty-three thousand deleted or gone. Remember they used to say "wiped the server"? And what about the server? What about the server? How did that happen? How did that happen? And then they put Petraeus and destroyed his life over nothing by comparison and many others.  And she walks, and then the president has a meeting for 39 minutes with a very important person in the back of an airplane and they talked about grandchildren and golf. No, it's sad. And then deleted the emails to cover up her crime -- she deleted them to cover up her crime, folks, 100 percent, not 99 percent.  A hundred percent. She deleted those emails to cover up what could be a major crime. And it is actually a major crime. I would watch it, I would read, and I found it very interesting. I think the reason Bernie Sanders may be lost because it was so close. And, you know, it's a rigged system to start off with, OK, with the super delegates.  And I said he was going to -- but that day in the debate when he said, "No, no, let's not worry about the emails. Let's get," you know, it sounded so nice as a sound bite. Had he gone the other way and had he demanded something, it would have been a whole different story. I think that's when he lost his primary election, I really do. I believe that.  So in any line, he did sold out. By the way, no offense, I know we have some Bernie Sanders people here actually. Do we have Bernie Sanders people here? I hear we do, yes.  So we're going to get a lot of Bernie Sanders' votes because of trade, because Bernie Sanders was right about one thing that I really believe -- not I believe in, it's a fact. We are dying with our trade deals. Our trade deals are a disaster. Our trade deals with other countries...  ...we're going to lose almost $800 billion this year in trade deficits with other countries. China, alone, $500 billion. He was right on that, he was right on that. But had Bernie Sanders not made that deal, and he made the deal with the devil. I've said it before. Had he not made that deal -- and then she picked a vice presidential candidate, Tim Kaine -- Tim Kaine. Now, I thought he'd be a really popular guy because I just left Virginia. I was in Loudoun County, Virginia. We had a tremendous crowd of people -- tremendous crowd, great people. I think that he'd -- you know, really a popular guy. He wasn't popular. You know, when he was governor of Virginia, in the first week, he raised taxes by $4 billion. Does anyone know that? And unemployment doubled. Unemployment doubled under his governorship. I mean -- and I said, oh, gee, are we going to have to sacrifice Virginia? And people said, "No, I think you probably just won Virginia. He's not popular at all."  Not popular at all. And -- and by the way, we have a great vice president.  We have a great -- Mike Pence.  Mike Pence from Indiana, AAA rating, one of the most incredible stories for any state. Indiana, great state, great people. Bobby Knight endorsed me. That was the end of that, right?  Bobby Knight, great guy. Eight hundred -- 900 wins, but Bobby Knight is terrific, but Indiana, the job that Mike Pence has done there has been amazing. I mean, he's AAA bond rating, you don't see that very often. Not many states have that. Unemployment was just -- it was terrible, it was out of control. Then he -- and the previous Republican governor, good guy. They -- the job they have done has been absolutely astounding. It's one of the reasons I picked it, maybe the primary reason. Now I'm seeing the incredible job he did. He came to me, called me the other day. He said, "Do you mind?" because he likes Paul Ryan. Paul Ryan is a good guy actually. Paul Ryan is -- no, he's a good guy. So Mike called me and he said -- yesterday and he said, "Would you mind if I endorsed?" I won't do that if it could cause any complications or problems. I would absolutely not. He's the greatest guy. He's the greatest human being. And he said that. He said -- but I like him. He's a friend of mine. "Would you mind if I endorsed him? And I will not do it if you say no." I said, "Mike, you like him? Yes, go ahead and do it 100 percent." And he endorsed him.  And then -- and then we have like a great relationship. It's short but, you know, it hasn't been that long, but I've known him through the campaign and then a couple of the papers, not all of them I must say, most of them wrote it legitimately, but a couple of them said, "There's a fissure between Pence and Trump. There's a fissure," it's so dishonest. These newspapers, the media folks, they are so dishonest. There is nothing so dishonest. There's nothing.  Really. So -- so she deleted the emails to cover up her crime. She lied about it all over, and over and over and over. And most recently, she lied to Chris Wallace of Fox. I mean, it was a pure lie. Anybody that saw that interview, they wouldn't even believe it. If I ever did that interview and if I ever gave that answer, I want to tell you I think I'd get the electric chair, I swear. I think I will.  It would be headlines all over the world. It's true -- double- standard. This isn't a -- this is a quadruple standard. Seriously, if I ever gave the answer that she gave to Chris Wallace, it would be -- honestly, it would be pretty close to execution. And you know what? Maybe worse, horrible headlines, OK.  Horrible. It's amazing. You know, when she said that I said, "Oh, this is going to be a big story. It's a story, but not very big." It's lingering though, it's lingering. You know, it's sort of like one of those things. You can't get rid of it, right? It's lingering. But the press wants to get rid of it, but it's lingering and it's out there. She lied -- boy, has she lied. Meanwhile, the Obama-Clinton economic disaster -- it's an economic disaster -- has brought suffering across the nation. Nearly four in 10 African-American youth are living in poverty. Another two million Latinos have joined the ranks of those in poverty. Nearly one in four people in their prime working years are now not working. You see the numbers. The numbers are very -- they're out there for everyone to see. The Obama-Clinton economy has been a total disaster for all working people, but especially people in the inner cities especially. We're going to bring back our jobs, folks. We're going to bring them back.  Hillary Clinton, and I've been saying this for a long time. Hillary Clinton works only for her donors, special interests, and lobbyists. You have lobbyists that have stamped on their forehead I can produce Hillary so -- and they're very good. And they raise millions of dollars. Did you see yesterday it was announced that Hillary Clinton got $48 million or so from hedge funds? And Donald Trump got $18,000 from hedge funds or $19,000.  I'm trying to figure out who they were. I want to give it back.  Who is it? Folks, folks, look, there was nobody better at the game or certainly much better at the game than I was. I was on the other side for a long time. Don't forget on June 15 I was established . On June 16, when I announced that I was running coming down that now very famous escalator with Melania, I announced..  ...she did a great job -- did a great job with her speech. She did and Ivanka did, and Eric did, and Don did, and Tiffany did.  Great job. They did a great job. Thank you. That's so -- I'm going to tell them about those. I'm going to tell them about this.  Wow, that's so nice. That's so nice. I'm going to tell them about this. They'll be happy. They worked hard on it and they were good. They worked hard. I think a couple of them now want to be politicians they felt so good up there, right? I told them don't -- don't do it. It's not. But you know, speaking of politicians, we've created a movement. We have a movement going on like they haven't seen in this country...  ...where major anchors and major political figures have said what Trump has done, meaning what we have done together -- it's a movement -- is perhaps the greatest political phenomenon they've seen in their lifetime.  And I don't want to think about it. I just want to keep going. But I'll tell you everywhere we go, we have crowds like this. We have -- I mean, it's only constrained by the size of the theater or the arena. You had to see -- honestly, you had to see Florida last night. You had to see -- thank you, I love you, too, darling.  You had to see...  ...you had to see what was going on in Pennsylvania, the love that was in Pennsylvania who have been stripped of their jobs. The NAFTA -- the NAFTA has been a disaster. Signed by Bill Clinton, the NAFTA has stripped Pennsylvania of so many of their jobs, stripped everybody, stripped you folks, too. But Hillary Clinton works only for our donors and special interests and you know that. And her whole life, the Clinton Foundation -- you ever seen this, the Clinton Foundation like Saudi Arabia gives $25 million of the Clinton Foundation, right? And -- and then you wonder and people naively say, will she be good for the energy business? Yes, she's going to be good for the energy business in Saudi Arabia. She's going to make it impossible for our energy business. And that's the way it works. I mean, it's a sad thing. She is going to be so good for the energy business of Saudi Arabia. Look, taxes, I'm going to cut your taxes in half.  We're going to cut your taxes. We have the biggest tax decrease proposed by anybody running for the presidency. That includes all of the Republicans, all of the Democrats. We have the biggest one. We are by far the biggest one. So we're going to have much lower taxes. We're going to cut our taxes very importantly. We're going to cut our taxes for the middle class. We're going to cut our taxes for business.  We're going to have massive dollars pouring into this country, and we're going to create jobs like we've never seen before. Taxes are so high...  ...that businesses cannot produce jobs. And one other thing, which is actually more important to these people -- to everybody -- regulations. Regulations are so bad they are so out of control that when I go around -- and it surprises me, frankly. When I go around and I look at taxes and regulations, people, if they could only have one, they would cut the massive regulations. They can't start businesses...  ...and businesses they have can't thrive. So we're going to take that out, yeah. We're going to take that out. We are going to make our country strong again. We're going to make our country powerful again.  You saw the two jetfighters that went down in the last short period of time? They're old, they're old. They're tired. It was just announced today, two fighters went down. They're old. They're tired. These are all fighters. We sell fighters to other nations that are far better than what we have. We don't have -- look, folks. We -- when we fix a part for some of our jetfighters that we're currently using, they have to go to the plane graveyards. They call them airplane graveyards to take them off old planes because they don't make the parts anymore. They're too old. We go to museums and take parts out of planes. This is what we're using to fight. This is the United States of America. This is what we're using. So here's what we're going to do. I've been up here a lot. I've been to Maine a lot. Smaller number of you know what...  ...we have a smaller -- what is it, four? Four, right, four. So we have -- but I've been here a lot because we have such incredible people up here. We have people that like Donald Trump...  ...like Donald Trump. We have people up here that are very, very proud of their country. They want to see great things happen. They know great things are going to happen.  They know great things are going to happen. And -- and they want to see our country be safe, and we want to see safety, but we're going to see many things. We're going to see many things. And we want to see if we can win the whole state. Somebody was saying not four but you'll get one. And somebody else was saying, you know, what, I think you can get all four.  I think you can get all four, so we'll see, we'll see. But as everybody knows, and I say it, and nobody ever challenges me. You know, when I was young, I was going to high school, and we had wars, but we never lost a war. We had never lost a war. Then all of a sudden you had the Vietnam War and you had other wars, and you had -- now we never win anything. We never win anything. We don't win anymore. We don't win with trade. We don't win for our Vets. We got to take care of our vets. We got to take great care of our Vets.  Our military, we can't beat ISIS. We can't beat ISIS. Can you imagine General Douglas McArthur? Can you imagine General Patton? These were tough, tough cookies. And we had those people, we have them.  How about General Flynn? We love General Flynn, right?  Mike Flynn. We have those people. But I guess, we're not using them. I guess, we're not using them. We can't defeat ISIS. So here's the story, folks. Yes, we can, you're right.  Very quickly. Who said that? That was very good. Thank you. Thanks. So, we're going to start winning again. We're going to win on trade. We're going to win with our military. We're going to knock the hell out of ISIS. We're going to win for our Vets.  We're going to win for our Vets. We're going to win at the border and we're going to build this beautiful, beautiful powerful big wall...  ...and Mexico is going to pay for that wall. Mexico is going to pay. They know it. Mexico is going to pay for the wall, and that's an easy one. And you know why they're going to pay? Because Mexico is making a fortune, the trade deficit. I'm not talking about the drugs pouring across, OK? We're not even including that -- massive amounts of drugs. You know, when I won New Hampshire, I made a pledge. Who's from New Hampshire here? I love them. So I made a pledge because I went around and it never made sense to me, you know, you see New Hampshire and you don't associate the beautiful streams and -- and all of the beautiful things that you see there, even the little roadways and -- and the forests, the lakes. And I said to the people of New Hampshire, what's the biggest problem? They said heroin. They said heroin. It just doesn't look like it, right? Am I right? And I got to know the people and we had a tremendous victory in - that was my first victory -- first victory politically.  Amazing people. And I said to the people of New Hampshire, "And if I win, we're going to stop this poison from flowing in and destroying your children and others."  And that's what we're going to do. We need to stop it. And then we have to help the people that are hooked because you have many, many people in this community, in New Hampshire, all over -- all over the country not just New Hampshire. But somehow New Hampshire because it just didn't seem like, you know, it's so delicate, so beautiful. This is so beautiful. Who would think that you're loaded up with drugs in Maine, and they're coming mostly from the southern border? We're going to stop it 100 percent. We're going to stop it, we're going to stop it.  And then we're going to work with people to get them unhooked. We got to get them unhooked. There's tremendous problems. We got to get them unhooked. And that's all over the country by the way. But I really learned more about that problem from New Hampshire than any place else. So here's the story, folks. We're going to start winning again. We're going to save our Second Amendment. We're going to get rid of common core. You're going to have your education locally.  You have your education locally. Save our Second Amendment. And the bottom line is this. You are going to be again very, very proud of your country.  Very important. You're going to be hopefully very proud of your president.  We're going to win again. We're going to win at every level, and we're going to make America safe again. We're going to make America first. Remember, we don't make America first, not anymore. We don't make America. We're more worried about other nations than we are ourselves, that's why they're ripping us off. We're using the wrong people. We're going to make America first. We are going to make America great again. Thank you. Thank you everybody.  Thank you.  Thank you everybody. 

So how good is he? How good is he?  Special. Special. He is a special man and special person. And he has become my friend. Oh, there is a lot of people here. Whoa.  Hello, everybody. Your football team is going to have a great year.  I watch. I watch. You've got the quarterback, you've got the whole deal. I think it's going to be a very good year.  OK? And if you get into that Super Bowl, I will be going, all right? So, you know, I wrote something down before, and I think it is important, because -- I love you too.  Because we need unity, we have to win this election. This is truly one of the most important elections, certainly in my lifetime. Because we are about to go -- we lose it, we are in the wrong direction, and maybe it's gone. Supreme Court justices, always remember that. But so many different levels, and when you see what happened with crooked Hillary today, it was a disaster.  A disaster. She had a disaster. She lies folks, she lies .  So, I want to -- I just wrote this out. I wanted to say to the group, you know, I had a great time when I was in Wisconsin, and I did not quite eke it out. I thought I was going to, but after that, it worked out well. You built me up, you taught me about politics. And when I left here, I said, I think I've learned a lot.  So, I love it. I love the people. I have many friends in Wisconsin. And they're -- they're incredible people. You're incredible people, I have to tell you that.  And we're going to have a lot of fun. We are going to have a lot of fun . This campaign is not about me or any one candidate. It is about America.  It is time for a change. We need a change. A real change, not an Obama change. We don't need an Obama change. We have had enough. It is time to change a rigged political system that works only for the insiders, and replace it with a government that serves the people.  Have to do it. And know both sides. I've been on the other side. Believe me. I actually like this side better; this is a movement. This is a movement like they may be have never seen in this country, according to even the political pundits that truly hate me, OK? This is a -- they -- oh, this is a movement that some say, most say is one of the great phenomenons that they've ever seen in politics. Some say it's the single greatest phenomenon.  Though the media doesn't want to talk about it, we have done something -- we. All of us, together. I'm a messenger; I'm only a messenger. We have done something truly historic together, standing before you as nominee for president and I'm not a politician, proudly.  I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system, and I'm probably better off running against the system.  I ran against the donors. I'm my own donor, essentially. I have a lot of money under this deal. This is a very expensive crisis, I want to tell you.  I funded -- as you know, I funded the primaries. And I'm in for under $60 million, and I'm largely funding my campaign as we go forward. In addition to that -- in addition to that, we have raised tremendous amounts of money, and much of it from small donors,$61; $61. As a Republican, that doesn't happen. It happens because of what you are seeing in front of you today. And if you remember, just prior to June, they did a story, "Donald Trump has not really done too well with fund raising." Well, that is because I did not even know if I was getting the nomination. I'm not going to raise funds -- I would've had enough if I didn't make it. I would have said, "Bye, bye, politics." But I wanted to make sure -- so I got it. And then I started raising money for the Republican Party. and we raised a lot of money. We started really on June 14th, Flag Day, my birthday. My birthday.  And in June, we raised approximately -- think of this -- $51 million. Can you imagine?  And those people couldn't believe it; they were really surprised. Big headlines, you know. Because they don't give me too many good headlines. I could do the greatest things. I do things that I think a fantastic. I say, good, there is no way they cover this badly. And they cover it badly. I gently tell a woman that I love her baby, and let the baby cry. It is OK. As the baby that had a voice that was superior to Pavarotti continued to cry -- I remember, I told her to stay, don't worry, ma'am. But after about 3 or 4 minutes, and I'm trying to speak and it was in Jacksonville, we had this massive, massive crowd, filled up the stadium. And the baby's screaming. So, I said, ma'am, I would like to reverse my order. Perhaps you could nicely take -- take the baby out. Your baby is great. I did it so nicely. She was happy. Even the baby was happy. He stopped crying.  And maybe you could take the baby out, would that be possible? The whole place was cracking up. And the next day in the newspaper, it said, "Trump throws baby out of arena." Terrible. Now, they are very dishonest. That was a tough one, when I -- and I just had a reporter come up to me, backstage, a reporter come up -- "Mr. Trump, sir, but why did you throw that baby out of the area?" I said, "I was having fun. I was so nice, I was so nice. Everybody likes me. The baby liked me, the mother liked me. We had a good time. I try to keep the baby in, but the baby was such -- had such a powerful voice."  IN fact, I want to find out who that baby is, because I want to sponsor the baby. And that baby will sing someday in Philharmonic Hall. I'm telling you. New York City. OK? The great Philharmonic.  So, I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system. I ran against the donors, because I'm largely my own donor. I'm running against myself. That's sort of -- never thought of it that way. And against the status quo, and the status quo, we have to get rid of, because it is not working, folks, because the country is a mess.  And that is why put up a lot of money. But while the Democrats nominated the candidate of special interests, and really a candidate of total corruption, I mean, you take a look at what she is doing, the Republicans made history by choosing a nominee from outside of this very, very corrupt the system. It is a corrupt system. It's a corrupt system. You want something done, they couldn't  do it for you. And that is not necessarily, and usually it isn't good for the country. That is why we're going to be able to deliver real change, and real safety and real opportunity to all Americans. We have to unite. Remember that. Everything I've accomplished, I have done by putting together a really fantastic team, including Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, who has done an incredible...  Done an incredible job. My wonderful staff of people that really love what we are doing, and they are working so hard. My family, friends, and it's expanding all the time. But I need a Republican Senate and a House to accomplish all of the changes that we have to make. We have to make them, right?  I understand and embrace the wisdom of Ronald Reagan's big tent within the party, big, big tent, remember? Ronald Reagan, great man, great guy. Remember he included Reagan Democrats and Independents and Republicans, a lot of people. We're going to have the same thing. There a lot of Democrats perhaps in this room, are there a lot of Democrats? Raise your hands. I mean, I don't think we need too many to be honest with you, but -- so I embraced the wisdom that my 80 percent friend is not my 20 percent enemy, Ronald Reagan.  Stated by Ronald Reagan, pretty good. We will be the big tent party. We are going to have a lot of cross help. We are going to have a lot of Bernie Sanders people coming in because of trade, because Bernie Sanders knew we were being ripped off by trade. Trade is a disaster with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with Vietnam, with so many countries, with every country, every country. We don't win at any level with anything, and as a unified party, we will lead our country to unity as well, very important. We need the unity, we have to win the election.  No we have to win it --- have to win it. Otherwise, our big movement was not as big as we thought and that's not good. That's why November 8th, you've got to get everybody you know -- and you know, all this voter ID nowadays, a lot of places aren't going to have voter ID. Now what does that mean? What does that mean? You just keep walking in and voting? So you have to be very careful, very vigilant -- you have to be careful. But we will have disagreements, but we will disagree as friends and never stop working together toward victory, and very importantly, toward real change.  So in our shared mission to make America great again, I support and endorse our speaker of the House, Paul Ryan.  Paul Ryan, he's good. He's a good man. He's a good man and he's a good guy. And we may disagree on a couple of things, but mostly we agree and we're going get it done and we're going to do a lot of wonderful things.  He's a good man. And while I'm at it, I hold in the highest esteem Senator John McCain for his service to our country, in uniform and in public office, and I fully support and endorse his re-election. Very important.  We'll work together. I also fully support and endorse Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire.  A state I truly love, primarily because that was my first victory, but I love New Hampshire. No, I love New Hampshire, one of the most beautiful places. She's a rising star and will continue to represent the great people of New Hampshire so very well for a long, long time. Senator Kelly Ayotte.  Working hand-in-hand, we will grow our majority in the House and in the Senate. We need that, we've got to get things done. Arm in arm, we will rescue the nation from the Obama-Clinton disaster, which is exactly what it is, that has bled our country dry and spread terrorism unabated across the world, that's what's happening. You saw it just now, Maps came out yesterday, they said ISIS far bigger, it's all over the place. It's all over the place. We're going to get rid of it, folks.  Our military is depleted. We're going to build up our military, we are going to get others with us. Believe me, we're going to get plenty of others with us. And speaking of others, wouldn't it actually be wonderful if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice?  They talk so big and so brave and so tough, they're the tough ones. You know, Hillary's real tough, give me a break. Wouldn't that be great? We get along with Russia, we go out together with others and we knock the hell out of ISIS, wouldn't that be great?  Together we will lead our country back to prosperity, security and peace. OK? When you look at the world and what's happened -- so we have the queen of corruption, she's the queen of corruption. She is a disaster. I said before, if crooked Hillary Clinton becomes president, terrorism will destroy the inner workings of our country. Believe me, they are loving it. She wants to have 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and that region into our nation. And we don't know who they are, we don't know where they come from really, we don't know if they're ISIS, some will be. And look at the damage that's done in San Bernardino with a couple -- probably he became radicalized by her -- a couple, and these were friends of theirs. These were people that gave a party in celebration of the birth of their child and they were gunned down, 14 people killed, many, many injured. Take a look at Orlando -- take a look at Orlando, how disgusting that was. Take a look at the World Trade Center and so many other places. Go to the probably toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, go to Paris and take a look at that, 130 people gunned down. You know, if people had guns, on the other side where the bullets are flying in the other direction, like you sir, you sir, you and you, ma'am.  First of all, if they knew guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have gone there. There were no guns. They were just sitting ducks, 130 people. In San Bernardino you had 14 people. But in Paris, just like this, boom -- get over here, boom -- get over here, boom -- 130 people with many still in the hospital, many so gravely wounded. It's horrible. And if they had bullets flying in the other direction, maybe they wouldn't have shown up, and if they did, I'll tell you what, you wouldn't have had that kind of carnage. You would have had people lying on the other side of the floor instead.  So Hillary Clinton wants to do major damage, as you know, to our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to put judges -- she wants to put justices of the Supreme Court -- she's going to make them nice and liberal, wait until -- wait until you see what that does to your rights. Wait until you see what that does to your Second Amendment. You will not recognize it, you will not recognize it. National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me.  They're great people, Wayne -- they're great people, Chris, they love this country. They endorsed me very early and it's really a -- it's really an honor. I'll tell you what, they are phenomenal people when you get to know them. They love the country -- you know, they love the country. They take a lot of heat, but they love the country, I'll tell you that right now. And I heard Mike, Governor Pence, talking about 1.2 growth -- 1.2 percent growth, the lowest in memory since the 1940's. When you think about it, it's the lowest. So a lot of differences between all of us, but I thought I would mention -- because I've known Hillary Clinton over the years -- I know her -- and she makes statements. She makes statements and they are statements coming out of her playbook. Well, let's see, "we can't get them for this -- can't get them for this." I've always heard that I have the best temperament, people tell me I have the best temperament, I have a temperament to win. We got to win. We got to win.  She said not so long ago, "I don't like Donald Trump's tone". Now, she is reading it off teleprompters only. "I don't like Donald trump's tone." And I said, you know, "we need a tough tone today. We have people -- we need a kind tone, but we need a tough tone." We have people being beheaded all over the Middle East and other places. We have crime that is rampant. We have people in the Middle East being drowned in steel cages. This is like medieval times, and she is worried about my tone. So they chop off heads and they drown people, and they bury people in sand. And then they ask me, "Mr. Trump, sir," -- at one of the debates in which I won, I'm very happy about that -- "Mr. Trump, sir, how do you feel about waterboarding?" I'm seeing chopped off heads, drowned people, burying in sand -- I said, "I'm absolutely OK with it, let me tell you."  Can you imagine what the enemy must say -- can you imagine the enemy -- ISIS in this case -- can you imagine what they must say as they spent the day chopping off the heads of Christians -- "come back, get together and start talking -- and they say waterboarding is not allowed in the United States -- by the United States, waterboarding is not allowed." Folks, we better get smart and tough and we are playing games with Hillary, we are playing games. It is just games, she is not the right person and everybody knows it. Her single greatest achievement is being caught in a crime and getting away with it.  This is true, 33,000 e-mails.  So I wrote this before on the way over to another rally at also a very nice place that's very full and very nice in Iowa. And we love Iowa don't we, yes? Right?  I thought it was accurate, unstable -- and she is, she is unstable. Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment that Bernie Sanders had. You just have to pay attention, as soon as he said it, I started writing notes. "She has bad judgment. She lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. Plus, she is a weak person." We don't need a weak person. He just said, "plus, she is a criminal." She is a dangerous liar who has disregarded the lives of Americans, and who has put all of us at great risk while supporting economic policies that have destroyed our economy. We have a long way to go. She is unhinged, she's truly unhinged, and she is unbalanced, totally unbalanced. And you can see, in the words of a secret service agent who just wrote a book, I bought the book, I wanted to see what he had to say; "she simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office." "From my bottom of my soul" he said, "I know this to be true." He was there. "Her leadership style, volcanic impulsive as it is, disdainful of the rules set for everyone else hasn't changed a bit. She's unqualified to become president." And she really is, and Bernie said that too.  Thank you. What great people. Wow. No, but it is true, no games, it is true. In one way she is a monster, OK? Look at what happened, look at her history. In another way, she is a weak person, she is actually not strong enough to be president. So she's got both, but she is not strong enough to be president. She will be a be a disaster. She will be so bad for our country, and I'm not just talking about Justices of the Supreme Court. She will be so bad for our country and we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. You know, Mike Pence told me a story, and maybe I should not say it, but I found it interesting, but of the reasons -- I guess the primary reason that he's in politics is because he watched the crookedness of the Clintons when they were in the White House. And he said "he ran, he ran again and he ran again, and he won." You have to hand it to him, this is the guy that does not give up. He does not quit. He never ever quits.  But he watched the Clintons -- and I'm sure they will be thrilled to hear that -- but that actually got him into politics, which is interesting. So then we make these horrible deals; Iran Deal, horrible deal, we got $150 billion -- and how about $400 million -- think of it, $400 million in cash, different currencies, different denominations. Now, lot of people say that money went toward terror. I'm nicer than that, see, I don't have that horrible thought process that some people have in this room have. I say, some of it went to terror, but a lot of it went into their bank accounts, believe me, that's the way it is. It went into their pockets, can you imagine these guys sitting there with $400 million in cash? You think they're giving that money to terror, they are giving that money to them and I guess terror got some of it, but most of it they kept. I mean, the concept of paying $400 million in cash is mind- boggling. I mean, you wouldn't think -- who can authorize such a thing? Where did they get it? What did they do, go to a bank teller and say, "give me $400 million in cash? I want to in euros, I want it in Swiss francs, wrap it up, we will come back in 10 minutes." I mean, it is just inconceivable. So we are witnessing a horror show in this country and throughout the world. You look at what is going on throughout the world with these same people, these people funding terror -- these people are funding terrorism. For us to have given $400 million to basically free our hostages. Now, Obama, just like he lied about Obamacare which was a tremendous lie, that was a tremendous lie, remember? "You can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor." Really? How many people have been able to keep the doctor or their plan? Keep your plan, keep your doctor -- not working that way, folks. It is a disaster. By the way, it is going to be repealed and replaced 100 percent.  And -- and honestly, I hope I win, because we will do a great job. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America great again.  But I actually think that regardless of who wins, Obamacare is going to fold in any event. It is so expensive. People can't afford it and the country can't afford it. Other than that, it is just wonderful. So, in Texas, they just had almost a 60 percent increase. Now the increases are starting to come out. The big increase is going to be announced on November 1st. The election is November 8th. Folks, they want to delay it, because it is election-changing. It is a mess. It is election changing, and they want to change it. And we can't let that happen. Because the numbers -- and I can see some of the numbers already -- the numbers are going to be astronomical. They are going to be astronomical. They're going to be so big, so horrible, and the health care, you know, the plan is terrible. It's terrible. And we're going to take care of everybody, but we're going to end up with a great plan that costs much less money for the people and much less money for the country. This plan is a total rip. It does not work, so it's going to fall, because economically, it is a disaster for the country, too. But what about people where they said they had a 30, 40, 50, 60 percent increase? And it's going to be worse than that, I predict on November 1st. So, we'd better get smart and we'd better start thinking properly. Now, I want to talk about what is going on at the borders, because money...  Oh, we're going to build it.

So, listen, so we have people coming to our country that should not be coming to our country . We have thousands and thousands of people from certain terrorist states, from certain parts of the world that we are allowing to come into our country. Most of the politicians, almost all of them don't even know where they are, where they are being put, they know nothing about these people. This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. And Hillary wants thousands more to come in over and above Obama. Right? So, tall -- and the wall is getting taller every day.  If you think of this, I just wrote this, the Obama-Clinton foreign-policy has handed huge portions of Iraq, Libya and Syria to ISIS. Huge portions. It has undermined stability in Egypt, and you know what they have to do over there. And empowered Iran as never before. Iran, three years ago was -- was dying. In fact, when they were marching in the streets, if Obama would have just encouraged them a little more, it would have been taken over by the people. But Obama played ball with the thugs that are running it right now. Think of this, think of this. Look, look. We're making a deal, and the deal is not made, and they are dancing in the streets of Iran saying how stupid the Americans are to be making this deal. The leaders, and in particular the leader of Iran, is calling us stupid, and the deal means nothing. And yesterday, I think he just said that the United States is essentially nothing. This is our -- this is our great, great partner. But when you have somebody -- if I was making this deal, and if the other side was bragging about it, the deal wasn't made, I'm not making that deal. I'm not making it. I'm walking. But we kept it going, and we should have never ever started negotiating that deal until we had our hostages back. OK?  We should have walked. We should have doubled up the sanctions and walked. And they would have -- and I say it. Before the plane reached New York City or Washington, you could just turn it around, because they'll call you, they'll say, let's go. Take your hostages. But when you think about it, you probably read today and yesterday, one of the hostages was waiting for a very long period of time. Now, Obama said that it had nothing to do with the hostages. That he would not do that for kidnappers. He would not do that for kidnapping. OK? No, no, think of that. You have got to think about it. He wouldn't do it -- now, it was the same day, right, same day. We have to be exactly accurate, because they'll catch us, right? Same day. The money came in, and one of the hostages, a good guy, I saw him interview on television. Good guy, hard time. Btu didn't he say he waited forever, he waited. And somebody said, nope, we are waiting for either something or a plane to come in. And here Obama stands up yesterday, and for seven minutes is telling us one thing had nothing to do with the other. Just a lie. You know, at least be truthful.  And we're talking about the same day, $400 million, and we could have had something that would have been a much better deal. And you know what, I'm all in favor of deals when it gets to nuclear. But we could have made it -- we should have walked. And we should have walked with $150, too; we have said, sorry, we don't have the money, can't pay. We don't have the money. We owe almost $20 trillion. I'm sorry, fellas, we love you, we think you're the greatest guys on Earth. But we can't give you the money. We don't have it. And they will get angry and they will be upset, and two days later, you'll be back negotiating. You just saved yourself $150 billion, right? Hundred and -- $150 billion.  So, we have terrorists pouring into our country, we have people coming in. I don't know if you saw this, in Maine -- and Maine knows, because Maine is -- I was up there yesterday -- a great place. A great governor, great governor. Paul is doing a great job. And I think the most important issue facing civilization right now is radical Islamic terrorism. And we have a president that refuses to use the term, and we have crooked Hillary who does not want to use it. Now, she's being forced to use it by me. Did you notice she gave a speech, she said, I will use it. She called it, I think, radical Islam. But she said, I will use it. I will. Just like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. She called it the gold standard. It is a horror show. It's almost as bad or maybe it's going to worse than NAFTA, signed by her husband, which cleaned out many of the states in our country, cleaned them out from manufacturing. Moved to Mexico and other places. NAFTA, a total disaster. NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. He never suffered the ravages, because he signed it, then he got out and other people did suffer with it. But we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, and if they don't want to make a great deal for us so we get our jobs back, at least a lot of them, if we can't make a great deal -- and she can't do that, by the way, if she wanted to. Number one, her donors would not let her. Her special interests would never let her. Her lobbyists would never let her. Number three, she could not do it anyway. Even if she wanted to. But we're going to renegotiate. And did you hear her the other day? After years of saying how wonderful it is, even though you look at New England, and you look at New York state and you look at Pennsylvania and Ohio, if you look at a lot of other places, one of the reasons I won Indiana so big -- well, one of the reasons was the great Bobby Knight, OK? Bobby Knight in Indiana.  That's gold standard right? As she said about TPP. But one of the reasons I won was because Carrier Air Conditioning was moving to Mexico from Indiana, and they let go of 1,400 people. And I've been talking about this, and I know how to stop it, and you've heard me before, so easy to stop. There have to be consequences when Mexico takes our companies. And not only Mexico; there have to be consequences when China devalues its currency so that our companies can no longer compete with China, even though we make better product. I have friends who are manufacturers. We make better product. They can't get their product into China no how . And when a few times arise where they can, they have to pay an incredible tax, beyond what anybody would even think costs. But yet, we open our doors and just throw away your stuff, and we lose our jobs and it is very, very said. But look, as many know, a major destination -- Maine, has become a major destination for Somali refugees. We admit hundreds of thousands of refugees into the United States from many of the most dangerous and unstable regions in the world. And you are getting them here too folks, you just don't know it because you just don't know. Anybody in this room -- anybody in this room from a terror territory? All right, a practice -- and this is a practice which will continue under Hillary Clinton except it will expand five, six, seven fold. I don't get it. I mean, I know they will vote Democrat, OK, that's what I know, but they will not be voting for a long time. I just -- I don't get it, how can anybody even think this way? Now, the Washington Times reported, "of the Somali refugees -- the program in Minnesota -- that the effort to resettle large groups of Somali refugees is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the state safety net" -- tremendous problems for safety -- "and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for the Islamic terror groups." Aren't we smart? We are having this problem across our refugee and immigration programs. Here are some of the examples -- I will give you a few examples, and this came out of the Senate subcommittee just recently. "The Boston bombers" -- remember those horrible, disgusting people? "The Boston bombers arrived through the political asylum process. The younger brother applied for citizenship and was naturalized on September 11, 2012. The older brother had a pending application for citizenship." And look what happened, we took them in. Look what happened, aren't we smart? The Moroccan national who came to the United States on a student visa was arrested for plotting to blow up a university in a federal courthouse. Great. A Uzbek refugee living in Idaho was arrested and charged with providing support to a terrorist organization in the form of teaching terror recruits how to build massive and very dangerous bombs. We let him in. An immigrant from Syria who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was accused by federal prosecutors of planning to go to a military base in Texas and kill three or four American soldiers, execution style if possible -- more than that, if at all possible. A college student who immigrated from Somalia who later applied and received U.S. citizenship, attempted to blow up a Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Oregon. An immigrant from Afghanistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship, and a legal permanent resident from the Philippines were convicted for plotting to join Al Qaida and the Taliban in order to kill as many Americans as possible -- as many as possible. An Iraqi immigrant who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for lying to federal agents about pledging allegiance to ISIS, his travels to Syria, and how many Americans he wanted to kill. Two immigrants from Pakistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship were sentenced to decades long prison sentences for plotting to detonate a bomb -- and a very big bomb, in the middle of New York City. An immigrant from Yemen who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for trying to join ISIS. He was also charged with attempting to illegally buy firearms to try to shoot as many American military personnel as possible. All right folks. So, I just say, what are we doing? What are we doing? And Hillary Clinton wants more and more to pour in. You can almost say, you know, politics aside, whether you are a Democrat, whether you are a liberal, a Republican, a conservative; what are they doing? I don't care who you are, what the hell are they doing?  So we are going to have strong borders, our southern border is going to be very powerful. We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into Wisconsin and every place else.  The heroin epidemic is beyond belief. In New Hampshire, a great place, that is where I realized the extent of what is going on. I met with the people of New Hampshire and they tell me, "the biggest problem they have is heroin." I said, "it can't be with the beautiful lakes and streams, it so beautiful." Right, and their biggest problems heroin. I said, "you have to be kidding, that can't be right, " and it was. Their youth is being poisoned. And then you go to Massachusetts, and you go to North Carolina, and South Carolina, and you come here, you come here -- I just left Iowa, you go to Iowa and you see the tremendous problems they have with heroin and drugs that pour in from the southern border. And look, here's the story, we are going to have strong borders. We are going to have a wall, it will be a big and powerful wall -- a big powerful wall.  You know that Hillary Clinton wanted a wall a number of years ago? She wanted a wall. And the primary research, as we understand it, looking back, not that long ago, she wanted a wall. You know, walls do work folks, all you have to do is ask Israel. All you have to do is ask some of the nations that are in Europe right now that are building walls. You know, it's sort of interesting, Obama talks about, "there will be no wall." But in the White House, which he just said, which is true, they want to build essentially a wall, they want to build a fence a lot bigger, and a lot higher, and a lot stronger. You know, it is interesting. I say, "don't build that fence right, don't build that fence," because they say, "walls don't work" -- fences don't work, don't build that fence." When Hillary doesn't want to let you have your guns, she is surrounded by people like this that have more firepower on them than any human beings on earth, and I think she doesn't want to have guns. I think that all of her bodyguards and all of her Secret Service should immediately give up their weapons.  OK, I mean it. They should immediately give up their weapons. They should immediately give up those weapons and if somebody comes at you with a gun, you just try to talk them out of it, I guess. You got to do some quick talking. You got to do some quick talking, Hillary. I don't think even Hillary with her phony lies and disgusting habits, I don't think Hillary could get away with that one.  So we are going to have a little contrast. And I did this very quickly but it is so simple, Hillary wants to raise taxes, Trump is going to lower taxes vary substantially, the biggest tax decrease of all on business and personal. Hillary wants to significantly expand regulations. Trump is going to get rid of many, many, many regulations.  Which, by the way, are stopping your businesses both small and big from succeeding, from expanding and more than anything, from starting. You can't start a business today the regulations are so onerous and horrible. Hillary wants to shut down energy production. Trump wants to expand it significantly. And we'll start paying off our debt. Hillary wants to essentially abolish the Second Amendment, take away your right. Donald Trump will protect it more so than any president that has ever served.  Crooked Hillary wants far left activities judges forced over there by Bernie and by Pocahontas.  Who will destroy our Constitution. I want judges who will support and defend our Constitution.  As close, by the way, to Justice Scalia who was great as we could get, OK?  Hillary wants to open our borders, just open them up because her special interests and donors want it that way. There are reasons, I understand that. I want to totally secure our borders. But I want people to come in. But they come in through a process and they come in legally.  Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. Did you ever see where she said Donald Trump with the nuclear -- I'm -- I didn't want the war in Iraq. And I'm on record. I didn't want the war in Iraq. I didn't want all of -- what they've done. And I said, if you read Esquire Magazine from a long time ago, you'll see everything I said was exactly right . It's going to de-stabilize the Middle East. I said the meanest, toughest group of people, the people that hate the United States and its people the most, they're going to take it over. That's exactly what's happened. They're taking over the oil, they're taking over the land, they're taking over everything. I didn't want it, but I'm always being accused like the war hog  they think I'm a tough guy, the war hog . Right? They think she wants to be tough with Russia. So she said well, Donald Trump likes Putin. I don't know Putin, folks. I don't know. I hope I like him, I hope he likes me because I'd love to get along with Russia. OK?  Love to. But I don't know. But she goes Donald Trump, Donald Trump -- think about it -- wants to befriend Putin and other things, she said right? And I'm saying to myself what's wrong with that? That's good. But she's going to be the tough one, see? She's going to be the tough one. She's going to play with nuclear weapons, you know? They have all the . She's going to be the tough one. I'll tell you what, you put her in the office of the president -- you know, she hates Putin and Putin hates her, right? That's what I hear. No, no -- Putin probably doesn't respect her more than anything else. But Putin hates her. But she's going to be tough. We're going to be tough with Russia -- oh, we're going to be tough, right? Let me tell you, we're in a different world today, folks. We're in a different world. But she makes it sound like I'm this tough guy that will have a temperament. You know, she uses the word -- you know who gave her the word? Her people that write the speeches, we'll say Trump with a temperament. They said Trump in a speech with tweets. I've got -- I've got between Facebook and Twitter like almost 21, 22 million people. It's an asset, it's an asset. I tweet well. But -- but she said -- she made the statement during her speech, you know, I heard it barely because I was falling asleep, you couldn't watch it.  All right. So remember that one. Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. Look at Libya. Look at that. We did a great job there. You know, a spot hit on Gaddafi maybe, but I mean even that, what the hell do we get out of this? It's a disaster. Then you have Benghazi, then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS taking over the oil, large portions of the oil. And it's some of the finest oil in the world. And you have ISIS grabbing it. We don't know what we're doing. We have people that don't know what we're doing. We have people that militarily -- in fact, they said well, who is your military consultants? And I give them names. But they're not working now, you know they're not working now. And I said of course they're not working now, look what working now people have gotten us. Havoc, who the hell wants the people who are working now? I mean...  You know, a lot of it's common sense and a lot of it's instinct and she has very bad judgment, she's got no instinct whatsoever. And when I was asked on one of the big networks about NATO, they said what do you think of NATO? Now, you know it's not like it was my primary subject in all fairness. I've only been doing this for 12 months. Now, it's actually almost 14 months, hard to believe, right? But NATO -- so I said I know enough. And sometimes knowing a little is better than knowing too much. You understand, you can't see the forest through the trees, right? So I said NATO in my opinion is obsolete because it's not covering terrorism. Obsolete for that reason and also you have many countries that aren't paying their fair share, they're not paying what they're supposed to be paying. And we're protecting those guys  and we're supposed to get into World War III for all these countries that aren't paying their fair share. And even the commander of NATO -- and I so respect what he did. He came out the other day and he said Donald Trump is right, we have cut  did you see the letter -- the big story? Donald Trump is right. I'm sure Obama was thrilled when he saw that.  Donald Trump is right; you have countries that aren't paying. And he said how he goes in and he talks to them. He says look, you've got to pay your bills. I have budgets -- which is true. And I have to go back to Congress and I have to say what's happening. They don't pay their bills though because people don't ask properly. And they probably say to the president or whoever may handle the country. "Sir, we owe the United States millions of dollars. We're ready to pay." Oh, have they asked for the money? No. They'll pay, OK? But I will say the commander of NATO said I was right. And then you have these people back here -- stupid people -- right here. They said Donald Trump -- they're the worst. They're the worst. They said Donald Trump -- Donald Trump doesn't like NATO. He is going to abandon NATO. That's not what I said. I said they've got to pay. They've got to pay. Now, you have to walk. You may have to walk. But they've got to pay. We're going to get in World War III for all these countries that are laughing at the stupidity of the United States, right? No, they've got to pay. And they probably will, in all fairness. But Hillary said about Japan -- because Japan, we're defending Japan you know that, right? Now, in all fairness before  put yourself back three years ago. Did anybody know that we defend Japan? Raise your hand who knew. All right, there's about 12 percent. Not bad. I think some of you are lying, OK? I think some of you are related to Hillary Rodham Clinton. I think some of you are lying. But we defend Japan and a man comes up, general or something, a few months ago, I remember so vividly. And he said at a news conference because they were embarrassed because I kept saying they've got to pay their way. And if they don't -- if they don't, you always have to be prepared to walk  you have to do that. You know, we don't want to do that, I understand the reason. It'd be nice to have them  but you know this isn't again 40 years ago. We owe $20 trillion. We're defending all these -- we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend Saudi Arabia. You think they have the money to pay -- how about we have military bases that we rent -- we pay rent to Saudi Arabia to protect them? No. No, think of it. Think of it, think of the stupidity. Think of the stupidity. So this general comes up, has a news conference a few months ago. And he said, "Mr. Trump doesn't understand that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend them." So a reporter goes up who I think is fair  and said to me, "Mr. Trump, we'd like your comment. They say that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend." And I said why aren't they paying 100 percent? The reporter said, OK." Not a bad question. Now, here's the problem with the Hillary -- Hillary rotten Clinton. Here's the problem.  Here is -- that's why she changed her last -- that's why she doesn't want to use the name anymore, because everybody was saying that. I don't know. I've been saying it. But look, here is -- here is why it doesn't work for Hillary. She saw that I said that we have to get reimbursed for our costs, at least, right? Japan, economic behemoth. Germany -- see how well they're doing -- economic behemoth. Saudi Arabia, nothing but money. They were making $1 billion a day with their high oil prices, now they're making a fortune, the same thing. Economic behemoth. Why are defending them, and why aren't we being fully reimbursed? Now, if we do that, your budget already is starting to look real good, OK. You know, you have budgets, so we losing our assurance ; we have an $800 billion trade deficit, folks. We trade with companies. We have a deficit with other countries, think of it -- $800 billion a year. Trade deficit. Do we make the deals? no. With China, $505 billion trade deficit. And they cheat us because they devalue their currency all the time. Whenever it gets a little bit tough, devalue, devalue, and our companies can't compete. Right? So, here's the thing. So, Hillary says about Japan, how dare he not not stay with our allies, how dare he not do that? I will never abandon our allies, ever, ever, ever. Now, how do you negotiate when you're telling somebody will never going to leave? We may have to leave. Look, Japan has problems because you have the maniac in North Korea making missiles. But I mean, you know, so we'll get it. Now, South Korea, it is an economic behemoth. You can't buy television that is not made in South Korea, except Sony, which is made in Japan, which has sort of lost its way. Whether it is LG or Samsung. I order thousands of television sets; you can't buy them in the United States. I'd love to. Show me one company. One of the pundits said, they do make them. There's a company. And he showed me, it's a little company. What they do is, all the parts come in for -- from all over the world; they put them together, and they give you a television that doesn't work and nobody ever heard of it.  And then I put it into a luxury hotel, and everybody complains, right? So, you can't say to people when you're negotiating -- because we're talking about tremendous billions and billions of dollars. You can't say to people -- you can't say to people when you're negotiating, we'll never leave you. Think of this, we're going to never leave you; we love you, we'll never leave you. Could you pay more? No, we're not going to pay anymore. You're not going to leave us. Why should we pay more? So, there's a chance we'll have to leave. And there's a chance that, you know, Japan will have to take over this monster and figure it out. We're very far away. It's very expensive. You know, we have a treaty with Japan. And if the United States is attacked, they don't have to do anything. But is Japan is attacked, we have to go in there will our full force and might, and who the hell knows what's going to happen, right? World War III, who knows what's going to happen. But if we're attacked, they don't have to do anything. You tell me, who makes these deals? It's like Sergeant Bergdahl, right? So, we trade a dirty, rotten traitor where five or maybe even six people were killed when he deserted, and we knew that they were killed and we knew that he was a traitor. We trade for five of the greatest killers, the greatest killers in the Middle East, the five people that they wanted the most. That is our deal. So, we get a traitor and they get five people that are right now, most of them, already back on the battlefields trying to kill everybody, including us. No more, folks. That is called the five for one president. That's -- that is the same guy that made the deal for $400 million. The other guys couldn't leave the airport, the hostages. And then all of a sudden, they were . And then you watched him yesterday saying that, can you believe it? This had nothing to do with that. OK? Just a coincidence. No, no, just a coincidence -- no. You know, she is unfit to serve as president for a lot of reasons. He is unfit also. He has done so bad. He has been so incompetent. We have doubled our debt during his -- think of it. Over the years of our country -- over the years of our country, he gets in, and in eight years by the time his term is up, we will have doubled our national debt. Think of it. So, we have to win this election. This is a very important election. I do not need to do this, folks, believe me. I could be elsewhere right now, I love being with you. But I could be elsewhere. I could be -- I might be in Wisconsin, just a different location. OK? But I felt I had to do it. I want to give back. I will get back give back, I'm going to give back. I'm going to give back.  I want to give back. Because our country does not win anymore.

Our country does not win anymore. And it is not going to win with crooked Hillary Clinton. Not going to win. It's not going to win. She does not know how to win. Our country is not going to win with her. We're going to be worse than we are with Obama. I mean, if you want four more years of what is going on, ISIS, all over the place, ISIS expanding. And by the way, our policeman are great, great people.  And we are not going to allow our policeman to be shot down anymore. Anymore. No more. No more. So, November 8th, you have a big election. I promise you this, if I win, we're going to start winning again. We are going to win on trade, we're going to win with our military, we're going to take out ISIS, we are going to win for our veterans who have been totally mistreated. Our veterans are great. We have a great plan for the veterans. We're are going to win for our veterans, first time, maybe ever. We are going to win on trade deals. We are going to make the finest, we are going to bring our jobs back. We're not going to make it easy for these companies to leave and fire everybody. It going to be very, very expensive when they do it. Believe me, it's going to be very, very expensive. They're going to say, you know what? Maybe we'll stay Wisconsin, OK? Maybe we will stay.  No, it's going to be very, very hard. We're going to have strong borders, we're going to have the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall 100 percent, 100 percent.  We are going to get rid of Obamacare. We're going to get rid of Common Core, we're going to bring our education -- local. We're going to have local education. We're going to appoint great Supreme Court justices.  And folks, we're going to start winning again. We're going to win at every level. We're going to win so much, you're going to get tired of winning, I'm telling you. You're going to be begging me, Mr. President -- you will send your great quarterback, right? He will come to the White House. Everybody respects him. He'll come to the White House, and he'll say, Mr. President, the people of Wisconsin, they can't stand winning so much.  Could you tone it down just a little bit? I will say, I just can't do that. We are going to win more, and more and more, we're going to win at every level. But we are going to win. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America safe again. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you,everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Such a crowd, beautiful. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Please. Thank you for the invitation to speak to you today. It is wonderful to be in Detroit. Been here many times.  We now begin a great national conversation about economic renewal for America. It is a conversation about how to make America great again for everyone, especially -- and I say especially for those who have at the very least.  The city of Detroit is where our city begins. Detroit was once the economic envy of the world. The people of Detroit help to power America to its position of global dominance in the 20th century.  Thank you. Thank you very much. When we were governed by the America First policy, Detroit was absolutely booming. Engineers, builders, laborers, shippers and countless others went to work each day, provided for their families and lived out -- totally lived out the American dream. But for many living in this city, that dream has long ago vanished. When we abandon the policy of America First, we started rebuilding other countries instead of our own. The skyscrapers went up in Beijing and many other cities around the world, while factories and neighborhoods crumbled right here in Detroit. Our roads and bridges fell into disrepair, yet we found the money to resettle millions of refugees at taxpayer expense. Today, Detroit has a per capita income of under $15,000, about half of the national average; 40 percent of the city's resident live in poverty, over 2.5 times the national average. The unemployment rate is more than twice the national average. Half of all Detroit residents do not work. Detroit tops the list of the most dangerous cities in terms of violent crime.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Detroit tops the list of most dangerous cities in terms of violent crime. These are silent victims whose stories are never told by Hillary Clinton, but victims whose suffering is no less real or permanent. In short, the city of Detroit is the living, breathing example of my opponent's failed economic agenda.  Every policy that has failed this city and so many others is a policy supported by Hillary Clinton. She supports the high taxes and radical regulation that forced jobs out of your community, and the crime policies have made you far, far less safe, and the immigration policies that have strained local budgets and the trade deals like NAFTA, signed by her husband, that have shipped your jobs to Mexico and other countries. And she supports the education policies that deny your students choice, freedom and opportunity.  She is the candidate of the past; ours is the campaign of the future.
This is a city controlled by Democratic politicians at every level, and unless we change policies, we will not change results, 100 percent.  Today, I will outline my economic vision. In the coming weeks, we will be offering more detail on all of these policies and the ones we have already rolled out...  Thank you, everybody. This is what happens when you go from 35 people to close to 2,000 people, I guess. In the coming weeks, we will be offering more detail on all of these policies, and the ones we have already rolled out can be viewed on my campaign website. Our opposition, on the other hand, has long ago run out of ideas. All Hillary Clinton has to offer is more of the same -- more taxes, more regulation, more bureaucrats, more restrictions on American energy and more restrictions on American production. More of that. If you are a foreign power looking to weaken America, you could not do better than Hillary Clinton's economic agenda.  Nothing would make a foreign adversaries happier than for our country to tax and regulate our companies and our jobs right out of existence. The one common feature of every Hillary Clinton idea is it punishes you for working and doing business in the United States.  Every policy she has tilts the playing field for other countries at our expense, and that is why she tries to distract us with tired political rhetoric that seeks to label us, divide us and pull us apart. My campaign is about reaching out to everyone as Americans and returning to a government that puts the American people first.  Thank you. Thank you. Here is what an America First economic plan looks like. First, let's talk tax reform. Taxes are one of the biggest differences in this race.
Hillary Clinton, who has spent her career voting for tax increases, plans another massive job killing -- $1.3 trillion tax increase, big increase, one of the biggest ever. Her plan would tax many small businesses by almost 50 percent. Recently, at a campaign event, Hillary Clinton short circulate -- you know this, you've heard this one -- Hillary Clinton short circuited again, to use a -- now famous term -- when she accidentally told the truth and said she wanted to raise taxes on the middle class.  I am proposing an across the board income tax reduction, especially for middle income Americans. This will lead to millions of new and really good paying jobs. The rich will pay their fair share, but no one will pay so much that it destroys jobs or undermines our ability as a nation to compete.  As part of this reform, we will eliminate, the carried interest deduction. Thank you. As part of this reform, we will eliminate the carried interest deduction, well known deduction and other special interest loop holes that have been so good for Wall Street investors and for people like me but unfair to American workers. Tax simplification will be a major feature of the plan.  Our current tax code is so burdensome and so complex that we waste nine billion hours a year in tax code alliance. My plan will reduce the current number of brackets from seven to three and dramatically streamline the process.  We will work with House Republicans on this plan using the same brackets they have proposed, 12 percent, 25 percent, and 33 percent. For many American workers, their tax rate will be zero. Well, we will develop our own set of assumptions and policies agreeing in some areas but, not in all or in others. We will be focused on the same shared goals and guided by the same shared principles, jobs, growth, and opportunity.  These reforms will look for the biggest tax revolution since the Reagan Tax Reform, which unleashed years of continued economic growth and job creation. We will make America grow again.  The days ahead, we will provide more details on this plan and how it will help you, and most importantly your family. It will present a night and day contrast to the job killing, tax raising, poverty inducing Obama-Clinton agenda.  So important, the state of New York has already lived through Hillary Clinton's failed leadership, the Washington Post just published today, a devastating article on Hillary Clinton's broken promises.
She pledged 200,000 jobs for up-state New York when she was a Senator, but what happened -- what happened? The Washington Post writes and I quote "Up-state jobs growth stagnated overall during her tenure with manufacturing jobs plunging to record-setting levels," plunging nearly 25 percent. The former first lady was totally unable to pass big-ticket legislation. Many promised jobs. They were all promised. I remembered so well. Vote for jobs, she'll bring back your jobs. Many promised jobs never materialized and others migrated to other states. She turned her first presidential run, which also was a disaster...  Thank you. Thank you. Data shows that upstate actually lost jobs, a lot of them, during Clinton's first term. In other words, she was all talk, no action, upstate New York, what a disaster. It's a disaster what's happened to upstate New York. And NAFTA, which her husband signed, is a very, very big reason. Compare that to my record. In a recent New York Post article, by Steve Cuozzo, "How Donald Trump Helped Save New York City." The paper writes that I, and this is a direct quote, in other words, it's not from me.  Thank you. Thank you. All very well planned out. Every .  And this is a direct quote, that basically, "Donald Trump waded into a landscape of empty 5th Avenue storefronts. The dust ball  mugging ground that was Central Park -- so dangerous -- and a Wall Street area seemingly on its last legs as companies moved out. Then, almost by sheer force of will, he rode to the rescue, expressing rare faith in the future. He was instrumental in kickstarting the regeneration of neighborhoods and landmarks, almost given up on for dead." True, I have to say. I didn't say it, they said it. This is what I want to do. You all remember, New York City was a disaster. We made it great. We made it great. This is what I want to do.  Thank you. This is what I want to do for our country. I want to jumpstart America, and it can be done, and it won't even be that hard.  Now, let's look at what the Obama-Clinton policies have done nationally. Their policies produced 1.2 percent growth, the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression  all over. It's a disaster. And a doubling of the national debt during the Obama years. There are now 94.3 million Americans outside of the labor force. It was 80.5 million when President Obama took office, an increase of 14 million people. The Obama-Clinton agenda taxed, spent and regulated has created a silent nation of jobless Americans. Home ownership is at its lowest rate in 51 years. Thank you very much. Thank you. I will say the Bernie Sanders people had far more energy and spirit, I will say. Nearly 12 million people have been added to the food stamp and these people are growing and growing so rapidly since President Obama took office. Another nearly 7 million people, great Americans, are right now living in poverty, poverty OK? Poverty. We have the lowest labor force participation rates in four decades. 58 percent of the African-American youth are either outside of the labor force or not employed. One in five American households do not have a single member in the labor force, not a single member of a household. These are the real unemployment numbers. The 5 percent figure is one of the biggest hoaxes in American modern politics. Meanwhile American households are earning more than $4,000; think of that, $4,000 less today than they were 16 years ago. The average worker today pays 31.5 percent of their wages to income and payroll taxes. On top of that state and local taxes consume another 10 percent, very grim picture. The United States also has the highest business tax rate among the major industrial industrialized nations of the world at 35 percent. It's almost 40 percent, it's almost 40 percent when you add in taxes at the state level and in many cases and many states it's much higher than that. In other words, we punish companies for making products in America but let them ship products into the United States tax-free if they move overseas. This, ladies and gentlemen, is backwards. This is backwards. All of our policies should be geared toward keeping jobs and wealth inside of the United States. Under my plan no American company will pay more than 15 percent of their business income in taxes. In other words we're reducing your taxes from 35 percent to 15 percent. Thank you, thank you. Small businesses will benefit the most from this plan. Hillary Clinton's plan will require small business to pay as much as three times more in taxes than what I'm proposing. And her onerous regulations will put them totally out of business and you won't be able to start, you cannot ever start a small business under the tremendous regulatory burden that you have today in our country.
I'm going to end it. I am going to cut regulations massively, massively. Our lower business tax will also end job killing corporate inversions, and cause trillions in new dollars in wealth to come pouring into our country. And by the way, into cities like right here in Detroit, to help unleash this new job creation we will allow businesses to immediately expense new business investments. No one will gain more from these proposals than low and middle income Americans. My plan will also reduce the cost of child care by allowing parents to fully deduct the average cost of child care spending from their taxes. We are also going to bring back trillions of dollars from American businesses that are now parked overseas, they can't bring their money back into our country. Our plan will bring that cash home, applying only a 10 percent tax. This money will be reinvested in states like Michigan -- states like Michigan, which are having serious problems. Finally, no family will have to pay the death tax. American workers have paid taxes their whole lives and they should not be taxed again at death, it's just plain wrong and most people agree with that. We will repeal it. ' Next comes regulatory reform. As with taxes I will have one overriding goal when it comes to regulation, I want jobs and I want wealth to stay in America. Motor vehicle manufacturing is one of the most heavily regulated industries in the country and even in the world. The US economy today is 25 percent smaller than it would have been without the surge of regulations since 1980. It is estimated that current overregulation is costing our economy as much as $2 trillion a year. That's money taken straight out cities like Detroit -- so many of our cities are suffering so gravely right out of Detroit and others. The Federal Register is now over 80,000 pages long. As the Wall Street Journal noted, President Obama has issued close to 400 new major regulations since taking office. Each with a cost to the American economy of $100 million or more. In 2015 alone, the Obama Administration unilaterally issued more than 2,000 new regulations; each a hidden tax on American consumers. And a massive lead weight on the American economy. It is time to remove the anchor dragging us down, and that's what it's doing; it's dragging us down. Upon taking office, I will issue a temporary moratorium on new agency regulations. My running mate, Mike Pence -- and by the way, a great guy -- signed a similar order when it came and became and when he worked so hard in Indiana as its governor.
This will give our American companies the certainty they need to reinvest in our community; get cash off of the sidelines, start hiring new jobs, and expanding their businesses; so important. That's what it's about. I will also immediately cancel all illegal and overreaching executive orders. Next, I will ask each and every federal agency to prepare a list of all of the regulations they impose on Americans which are not necessary, do not improve public safety, and which needlessly kill many, many jobs. Those regulations will be eliminated quickly. We are in a competition with the world, and I want America to win. We don't win anymore, but when I am president, we will start winning again. Big league. One of the most important reforms of all is trade reform. As Bernie Sanders has said, Hillary Clinton has bad judgment. He said it many times. We've seen this bad judgment overseas in Libya, Iraq and Syria. We've seen it in Iran, we've seen it from President Obama when he gives $150 billion to Iran - the number one terrorist state, and even gives them $400 million in money laundered cash as a ransom payment. But we've also seen the terrible Obama-Clinton judgment, right here for everybody to see in Detroit. Hillary Clinton has supported the trade deals, stripping this city and this country of its jobs and it's wealth. She supported Bill Clinton's NAFTA. She supported China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. She supported job killing trade deals, and that was a really bad one, with South Korea and she supports the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Not now, but very soon, if she wins and we can't let her win, because that will be a disaster for Detroit and everybody else.  Let's talk about South Korea for a moment, because it's perfectly and it just perfectly illustrates the broken promises that have hurt so many American workers. President Obama and the usual so-called experts who have been wrong about every trade deal for decades predicted that the trade deal with South Korea would increase our exports to South Korea by more than $10 billion, resulting in some 70,000 jobs. Like Hillary Clinton's broken promises to New York, these pledges all turned out to be false. Instead of creating 70,000 jobs, it has killed nearly 100,000 jobs according to the Economic Policy Institute. Our exports to South Korea haven't increased at all, but their imports to us have surged more than $15 billion, more than doubling our trade deficit with that country. What else is new? It's happening with everyone. The next betrayal will be the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Hillary Clinton's closest friend, Terry McAuliffe, confirmed what I've been saying, and this is from the beginning. If sent to the Oval Office, Hillary Clinton will enact the TPP as sure as you're sitting there. Her donors will make sure a vote for Hillary Clinton is a vote for the TPP, and it's also a vote for NAFTA. Our annual trade deficit in goods with Mexico has risen from close to zero, think of that, close to zero in 1993 to almost $60 billion today. Our total trade deficit in goods hit nearly $800 billion last year. Total trade deficit almost $800 billion.
This is a strike at the heart of Michigan and our nation as a whole. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, before NAFTA went into effect there were 285,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000 auto workers. Detroit is still waiting for Hillary Clinton's apology. She has been a disaster, Obama has been a disaster. I expect Detroit will get that apology right around the same time Hillary Clinton turns over the 33,000 e- mails she deleted.  Hillary Clinton's Trans-Pacific partnership will be an even bigger disaster for the auto industry, believe me. Even bigger and even worse than NAFTA. In fact, Ford Motor Company has announced its opposition to the deal. According to the economic policy institute, the U.S. trade deficit -- with the proposed TPP member -- all of the member countries has cost over 1 million manufacturing jobs in the year 2015, 1 million jobs. By far, the biggest losses occur in motor vehicles and parts which lost nearly 740,000 manufacturing jobs. What are we doing? Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of state workforce due to the trade deficit with TPP members. Just imagine how many more auto mobile jobs will be lost if the TPP is actually approved, it will be catastrophic. That's why I have announced we will withdraw from the deal before that can ever, ever, ever happen.  Hillary Clinton will never withdraw from TPP. She is bought, controlled, and paid for by her donors and special interests, 100 percent.  Because my only interest is the American people, I have previously laid out a detailed seven-point plan for trade reform available on my website. It includes strong protections against currency manipulation, big problem.  Tariffs against any countries that cheat by unfairly subsidizing their goods and it includes a total renegotiation of NAFTA which is a disaster for our country, a total renegotiation. And if we don't get a better deal, we will walk away.  At the center of my plan is trade enforcement with China. This alone could return millions of jobs into our country. China is responsible for nearly half of our entire trade deficit. They break the rules in every way imaginable, including militarily. China engages in a legal export, sub cities, prohibited currency manipulation and rampant theft of intellectual property. It's rampant, it's out of control. They also have no real environmental or labor protections, further undercutting American workers. Totally undercutting our workers. Just enforcing intellectual property rules alone could save millions and millions of American jobs.  According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, improved protection of America's intellectual property in China would produce more than 2 million more jobs right here, right now in the United States.  Add that to the same jobs from cracking down on currency cheating and product dumping.
And we will bring trillions of dollars in new wealth and wages back to our country, the United States of America. Thank you.  So simple. So simple. Trade has big benefits -- thank you. Trade has big benefits, and I am in favor, totally in favor of trade. But I want trade deals for our country that create more jobs and higher wages for American workers. Isolation is not an option. Thank you.  Thank you. Isolation is not an option. Only great and well- crafted trade deals where we as a country for once benefit, instead of being taken advantage -- instead of being taken advantage of, we are going to benefit, and our workers are going to benefit, or we're not going to make those deals.  Also critical to our economic renewal will be energy reform. The Obama-Clinton administration has blocked and destroyed millions of jobs through their anti-energy regulations, while raising the price of electricity for both families and businesses. As a result of recent Obama EPA actions, coal-fired plants across Michigan have either shut down entirely or undergone expensive conversions, making them non-competitive in many cases. The Obama- Clinton war on coal has cost Michigan over 50,000 jobs. Hillary Clinton says her plan will put a lot of coal companies and coal miners out of business. We will put our coal miners and our steelworkers back to work, where they want to be.  Clinton not only embraces President Obama's job killing energy restrictions, but wants to expand them, including going after oil and natural gas production that employs some 10 million Americans. According to the Heritage Foundation, by 2030 -- think of that, 2030 -- the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion and reduce incomes by $7,000 per person. A Trump administration will end this war on the American worker and unleash an energy revolution that will bring fast new wealth to our country. According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on all sources of American energy will do the following: increase GDP by more than $100 billion annually, add over 500,000 new jobs annually and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years.  Additionally, it will increase federal, state and local tax revenue by almost $6 trillion over four decades, increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over the next 40 years. The reforms I have outlined today are only the beginning. When we reform our tax, trade, energy and regulatory policies, we will open a new chapter in American prosperity, which is so desperately needed. We need a new chapter.  We can use this new wealth to rebuild our military -- which is desperately needed -- and our infrastructure. As part of this new future, we will also be rolling out proposals to increase choice and reduce costs in child care, offering much-needed relief to American families.
They are suffering. They are suffering We are going to get them this much needed relief. I will unveil...  Thank you. I will unveil my plan on this in the coming weeks that I have been working on with my daughter, Ivanka, who is here. Stand up.  She feels so strongly about this and an incredible team of experts. Likewise, our education reforms will help parents send their kids to a school of their choice.  It will be so good for Detroit. We will also give our police and law enforcement the funds and support they need to restore law and order to this country.  Thank you. Thank you. Without -- without security, there can be no prosperity. Without security, there can be no prosperity. We must have law and order. We must have law and order.  By the way, our police in this country are really unrecognized for the incredible job that they do. Thank you.  In the coming days, we will be rolling out plans on all of these items. One of my first acts as president will be to repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare, saving another 200 million American jobs.  We will also rebuild our military and get our allies to pay their fair share for the protection we provide to them, saving us countless more billions of dollars to invest in our own country.  We also have a plan on our website for complete reform of the Veterans Administration.  This is something so desperately needed, to make sure our vets are fully supported and get the care they deserve, which they have not been getting -- not even close.  Detroit, the Motor City, will come roaring back. Roaring back.  We will offer a new future, not the same old failed policies of the past. Our party has chosen to make new history by selecting a nominee from the outside, and that is outside of the very, very already proven rigged system.  The other party has reached backwards into the past to choose a nominee from yesterday, who offers only the rhetoric of yesterday and the policies of yesterday. Just take a look at what happened to New York state manufacturing, and take a look at her promises before this happened. A disaster. There will be no change under Hillary Clinton, only four more years of weakness and President Obama. But we are going to look boldly into the future. We will build the next generation of roads, bridges, railways, tunnels, seaports and airports.
That, believe me folks, is what our country deserves. American cars, American cars will travel the roads. American planes will connect our cities. And American ships will patrol the seas. American steel, steel -- American steel -- we will send new skyscrapers soaring all over our country. We will put new American metal into the spine of this nation. It will be American hands that rebuild this country. And it will be American energy, mined from American sources that powers this country. It will be American workers who are hired to do the job, American workers. Americanism, not globalism, will be our new credo. Our country will reach amazing new heights maybe heights never attained before. All we have to do is stop relying on the tired voices of the past. We can fix a rigged system by relying on the people, and just remember this, so important. We are reliant on people that rigged this system in the past. We can't fix it. And we're going to rely on those people again. We can't solve that problem. So we can't solve our problems if we're going to just go back and rely on these politicians. Because that's what we've been doing. Only by changing to new leadership and new solutions will we get new and great results. We need, thank you; we need to stop believing in politicians and start believing in our great country. Before everything great that has happened, the doubters have always said, it couldn't be done. They say it right now. It couldn't be done. They actually said it when I ran for political office. Not going to happen, he's never done it before. It happened. American is ready to prove the doubters wrong. They want you to think small. I am asking you to think big. We are ready to dream great things for our country once again. We are ready to show the world that America is back. Bigger and better and stronger than ever before. Thank you very much, God bless you, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Well, thank you very much. And he's not 68-years-old, he's actually 95, right? But he's been mining for 68 years safely. It's fantastic.  I thought he looked pretty good at 68. He looks really good at 95, I'll tell you that. So I want to thank everybody. It's fantastic to be here. We've had a tremendous response from the miners. And you look at West Virginia, what happened there during the primaries. It was a massive landslide for Trump. And it was very interesting because after winning New York, here we are standing on 5th Avenue and I said -- and the all  just incredible street of New York. And for some reason, and it had nothing to do with West Virginia, I just said it because I was seeing what was happening with this industry. And I said in this, you know, really such a different location, that we are going to put the miners back to work. And I said that during my speech. And...  And by the way -- and I meant it. And then a number of weeks later, I went to West Virginia and we had a big, huge building, actually. And it was packed and there were thousands and thousands of people -- tends of thousands of people outside. And you've never seen so many people. It was like love, like absolute love the way they showed up, the miners. And you know, we did so well there, it was something I won't forget. I mean, it was really incredible. And I pulled over some of the folks because afterwards, I was talking to some of the people and some of the mine owners who have been really decimated and really, in many cases, destroyed by regulation and by what they're doing to the mines. And you look at all the mines that have been closed up. But I brought over some of the miners and we were talking after the speech, and I said, "Could I ask you like would you ever think of maybe leaving and going into a different industry, going into a different job?" And they all said -- and I understood this very well because, you know, my father was in real estate, I went into real estate. We sort of do that. They said, "Mr. Trump, we love mining. We don't want to do anything else. We love mining." I so understood that. It was so incredible. And they all said it like at the same time. They want to be miners, but their jobs have been taken away and we're going to bring them back, folks. We're going to bring them back.  The -- the U.S. -- I just took a look at this. Somebody just handed -- the U.S. has lost nearly 200,000 mining jobs since 2014 -- 2014, and that's not a long period of time; 200,000 jobs.
The senator brought up a fact and a couple of the folks brought this up, and it's a fact that nobody's heard. But during times of national problems. We're talking about the defense of our country. Having those minds and having that potential energy source available to us is an awfully important thing. It's an awfully important thing. And nobody thinks in terms of that, they don't think in terms of that.  And I fully -- and I fully understand that. But it's been an honor. We just met with some of the folks. We're really representative, I would say. Senator, I would say representatives from every aspect of the business, right? And it was amazing. It was really amazing. These are great people, they're great Americans. They love this country. And if I get in -- if I get in, I mean you know, it's -- it's -- if I get in this is what it is, OK?  And -- and other forms of energy, all forms of energy. But what they've done to the minors is incredible and the Obama Administration. And you remember and I think you might've just seen it.  Yes, know what they've done and nobody knows, you know clean call, nobody knows. While you look at what's happening with China, the amount of energy they're producing and what they're using coal for, tremendous amounts of -- just tremendous. It's like incredible. They're not cleaning it. Believe me, they're not cleaning it. We have a small, a very, very small planet compared to the universe, right? And that stuff is going up and they're not cleaning it. And here we produce great stuff and we're not allowed to use it. And its getting worse and worse. So they're gonna be out of business soon. Hillary Clinton will be worse than Obama. You know it, she'll be worse.  Don't forget, when she made the statement, gonna put the minds and essentially gonna put the minds and minors out of business, gonna put them out of business. And I guess she forgot about West Virginia, right? She was -- she was going to West Virginia. She forgot about Virginia too, in all fairness, you know.  You know, she had -- she had West Virginia right after -- a short time after that. And you remember when she went into West Virginia she met with that wonderful family and the man -- the  miner for many years? And he was trying to explain to her and she was trying to say well, you know I really wanna keep -- she didn't know, she was groveling. She was groveling, she didn't know what to say. I don't think he was going to be easily convinced, do we agree? Because she said it just like she said and you know she said it was a mistake that she's going to raise taxes in the middle class, you saw that one? Now, maybe she misspoke. I mean we have to give them a break. But it did come out awfully loud and clear, I -- I don't know. Hey look, hopefully it won't matter, OK? Hopefully it's not gonna matter because she's not gonna get .  But what I told -- what I told the folks before, we were over at Peterbilt  the plant, incredible. But what I told -- what I told the folks before is -- is that you have to get our and vote. Because the minors to a certain extent they are so down and they've been treated so badly that they haven't been voting. They haven't been going out and voting like they can. And that includes members of their family that have left the mining business, let members of the family -- they've left coal. They've left everything. And they've gotten into something else and that's fine, that's great.
But they live in Virginia and they vote. And their parents are still in the coal world where they wanna be and that's where they wanna be. But everybody has to get out and vote. If you get out and vote, we're pretty close in Virginia and she's spending a fortune in ads. A friend of mine said he can't see television without seeing anti-Trump ads. And they're not even true. My friend actually said they're not true. I said, "I know." I could go over those ads one by one and show you the - it's fraudulent, actually. But, what are you going to do? She's spending Wall Street money on ads. And it's just one after another, after another. And this guy kiddingly said, "I just want to see one Ivory soap ad. One." Just to break it. And we haven't spent anything yet. We will be, because we're doing well. But we haven't spent anything yet; we're holding it. But it's really - it's really a shame that they can say whatever they want to say. They try and demean and defame. And then you look at what she's doing with her e-mails. 33,000 missing e-mails. Yeah, 33,000. It's - it's very sad. And then I guess yesterday, 1,000 came out or something - some fairly vast number. Oh, I want to see the ones - the - what I really would like to see the - we have to see the 33,000. Can you imagine? Remember, she said I think it was for her wedding - the wedding of Chelsea. And it was for yoga classes. 33,000 e-mails. It's a lot of yoga - it's a lot of yoga. But a couple of very bad ones came out. And it - it's called pay for play. And some of these were really, really bad and illegal. But it's true, it's illegal. You're paying and you're getting things. I mean I watched yesterday, because of the Apprentice, Blagojevich, right, Governor Blagojevich - 14 years in jail. And you know some people think OK, some people think it's crazy. Look at what she's done - nothing. She's running for president. But it came out to her people, pay for play. And very big stories today. The problem is, it'll be big stories for about two minutes, and then they're going to drop it because the media is so totally dishonest - so totally...  If that were me - if that were me, the story that just came out this morning - and really, hidden from some of the major newspapers - hidden. If that were me, that would be biggest story in the history of the various papers. They go quadruple spacing, bomb  Trump. But with her, it's - it's just - I mean it - it's - I mean some of them covered it - big league. But some of them are just refusing to really report the facts. And I think it's gonna get worse and worse though because I assume more stuff will come out. But this was big stuff. Pay for play - it's illegal. I mean it's illegal. And we'll see what happens with it, folks. We'll see what happens with it. But it's very serious stuff. It's very, very serious. I don't know that it can be any more serious than deleting or getting rid of 33,000 e-mails, and all of the other things - the server - the server, which not allowed to have. The information gotten off that servers by who knows who, probably many people - many countries, potentially. Secretary of State to put us all in that position. So I think it's a very sad thing.
And they give her a pass on everything. Give her a pass. It's so sad when I watch that. And it was point, after point, after point. And everybody was saying wow, they're really going to do it. And then they go, however - as soon as I heard - you know, when you hear the word "however." But it's just -- it's just so incredible that a thing like that could happen. So let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. In the meantime, we're doing very well. You saw the polls over the last day or two have really tightened up a lot. I think we're going to have a great victory. I really feel it.  One of -- one of the things I suggested is your ballots. You go and sign -- do it early so you don't have to -- because on November 8th, we have our big day. And if you go in an sign, we have some people in the room now that I've met before that are going to be pushing hard. But put in your ballots. They have certain requirements and you live by those requirements perfectly. Make sure they don't lose your ballot. Make sure they don't lose your vote, which I'm sure -- you know, and I just left a great place, North Carolina. And they just had a tremendous loss -- voter ID, voter ID. They lost voter ID. How do you lose voter ID? You mean, you don't have to show identification? You don't have to show that, hey? And then you say -- you know, I've been talking about the rigged system for a long time. And I get hammered in the press for talking about it. Oh, I can't believe he'd be talking about the rigged system. And then in the meantime, voter ID, you don't have to do. And I'm sure none of those folks would be voting 10 times during one day, right? I'm sure a thing like that...  But I get -- and really, a big part of the rigged system is the press itself because they can take a little story, that isn't a story, and make it into a big deal. It happens so much, happens so much. And speaking of that, remember this. We have so many things that we have to protect in this country. We have to protect our Second Amendment, which is under siege.  Remember that. Remember that. It's under siege.  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We have to -- you know, I see -- and by the way, we have a lot of unity in the Republican Party, but nobody talks about it. If one senator says we're not voting for Trump, never Trump, some people were beaten so badly that they, you know, they just can't get it. And I understand that. I mean, I can see that could happen. So, you know, they've won throughout their lives politically, and then they lose an election by a lot to a guy that never ran before. OK? I never ran before. Never thought I'd be doing it this time, either, but I watch what's going on and I say, it's time.  It's time. Boy is it time, right?  You know, I look at the Iran deal. How about the $400 million in cash? How about that? How about that? The $400 million -- do you know what that is? Does anybody know what that would even look like -- 400? And did you see Iran actually finally did do what I thought they were going to do. They released pictures, because they want to embarrass the United States, just like they took the 10 sailors and they made us look so bad. They made us look so bad. It was like a humiliation of our country.
OK? This is horrible. And then we keep going and going. And you saw what their so-called leader -- somebody would say the supreme leader. I refuse to use that term. President Obama would say the supreme leader. What is going on, folks? What is going on with our leaders? And with our leader, in particular? He is grossly incompetent. OK? Grossly incompetent.  So -- so their  $400 million in cash going, it happens to be the same day as the hostages were released. The hostages were in the airport for massive amounts of time. And I guess one of them said they wouldn't let us go because they were waiting for a certain plane to come in. And I just can't imagine what was on that plane, right? We can't imagine. I'm sure it had nothing to do with the $400 million. But isn't that unbelievable? And then he'll stand up and he'll say that one thing had nothing to do with the other. And then practically I guess you could say there's a one or two percent chance that you know, what he said is right. But that's about it. They would practically -- they're saying -- they're waiting for something else and a plane to come in, right? And they were at the airport forever. And they say and President Obama said no, this had nothing to do with the hostages. And you know if you remember with Obamacare, he said you can keep your plane, you can keep your doctor. You have your doctor, you have your plan -- how many times he said it, 28 times or something? And many Democrats approve that disaster, it's a disaster. We're gonna repeal it and replace it .  But many, many Democrats -- many, many Democrats would not have -- you know, won by almost nothing, the margin was almost nothing. And a lot of Democrats approved it, they didn't want to approve it. But you know, with the doctor and the plan and over and over again a lot of pressure put on. And it's out of control. Premiums are going up at a rate that nobody has ever seen before. You know, in Texas through Blue Cross Blue Shield they just had almost a 50 percent increase. And they -- the big increase is now going to come on November 1st. And they're trying to delay it 'till after the election because it is catastrophic. It is going to be an increase like never before. I'm hearing numbers that I don't even wanna say because the press will say oh, that's terrible, he exaggerated. There's not gonna be an exaggeration. Its going to be election changing. And we can't let those numbers be released on another date sometime after the election. Because it will show what a total disaster Obamacare is, so important. So I just say to all of the politicians in the room and your great congressman who is a terrific guy -- where is he by the way ? Oh, congressman stand up. Stand up.  Vote for him, he's out guy.  Stand up Senator, come on Senator.  Now, we have -- we have great people, here. So right now they're swimming uphill but with Trump we'll be just sliding beautifully down. It'll be a whole different deal. It'll be a whole different deal. And it can happen quickly. It can happen -- we discussed that, we had a big meeting and we discussed it. It's gonna happen very quickly it doesn't need to go through Congress and doesn't need to go through lots of different things. EPA is very important what they've done and we want -- everybody agrees? We want clean air and we want clean water, do we agree? I want.  So I very much appreciate the meeting, it was a great meeting. I just wanna say that Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Now, NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is a disaster.
It's been a disaster not only for Virginia but for virtually every state. Upstate New York, it looks like a war zone. That's why I won so much and I go the upstate vote in numbers that nobody's seen before. Upstate New York, you go to New England, you see the factories, these beautiful old factories that you see they were once thriving. Thousands and thousands of people working and those people now are doing part time jobs. They're working two jobs, they're making less money than they made 18 years ago. I don't know if you saw that statistic where people, and people in this room too, but where people are making less money now in real wages than they made 18 years ago and even longer. And they've gotten older, gotten older, and they're working harder, not supposed to be that. It's supposed -- hey, of course I've gotten older and I'm working harder too to be honest with you.  I didn't need this. I could have enjoyed myself a lot.  Oh, getting older, we're working -- it's supposed to be the other way, right? We're getting older and starting to relax. No, it's not work, I don't know, I don't know that like that -- I love what I'm doing. I have been all over this country. We have the greatest people. Anywhere in the world, the greatest people.  And I have the greatest supporters. We have the most loyal supporters and the smartest. You know they always like demean everything, they try to demean supporters, they're always trying to put a little knock, you know little shots, boom, boom, boom. We've got the smartest, we've got the most loyal, we've got the hardest working, we have the best people. They like to demean.  But we have amazing, just amazing people and I've seen this all over the country and we can start making Apple computers in our country, OK folks? We can start building, we can start building.  You know we go to China, and you'd think even the shipping costs, when you just think of it, the shipping costs, I mean how much of a difference, we can -- and you bid it all to different states and you'll get the good deal from somebody, just keep it in our country. When they close plants and they move to Mexico and then a company builds in Mexico, whatever product they're making and then they think they're going to sell the product back into the United States. All of their people have been fired, every single one of them have been fired. And they're now using people from another nation to make the same product. And you know what, they think they're going to sell it across our border, which by the way will become a very powerful, very strong border, OK it's no long going to be a piece of Swiss cheese.  And they think they're going to sell it across the border. No tax, no nothing, sell it to wherever it came from. Let the people that got laid off buy it and now maybe they're unemployed, maybe they're two jobs, and they're making less, right, as we said. And, not going to happen folks. And I've watched for years as our government, which is I guess you could say stupid, but honestly not so stupid. They're controlled by special interests. When you see companies moving over to Mexico, and other places...  They're controlled by special interests. They're controlled by lobbyists, they're controlled their donors who have big chunks of companies or own the whole company. Because these aren't stupid people, our politicians. Some are but we have a genius right over here, that's all I care. Some are, but a lot of them are just controlled because that's the way the system works. So you think that, you know, like a friend of mine asked me a few weeks, how did a deal like this get approved? It's impossible. Unless -- you know there's no way, there's a certain deal that happened with the government. And he said how is it possible? And he's a little naive and I said well it's possible because that company has total control over the politicians that have to approve.
Now, I spent like over $50 million, substantially over 50 million in the primaries, my own money. I spent a lot of money now in the general election and I'm spending a lot of money for myself. We're also raising a lot of money. We're also getting a lot of money. Don't worry. You don't have to give. Don't give. We're going to straighten this place out. OK? We're going to straighten this place out. But, you know, we have a lot of small donors -- $61, I think, average. We raised millions of dollars. In June, we raised actually $51 million, of which like $27 million was small donors -- $27 million.  And last month, we raised $82 million, of which much of it was small -- I love the small donations -- to me, the best. And so I'm spending a lot of money from myself. I'm raising a lot of money for the Republican Party. But the beautiful thing is the people that are giving those small dollar donations -- $61 average -- because those people are invested in the campaign. They want to see -- they get out and vote 100 percent. They get out there and they vote, and it's so important. And a Republican generally doesn't have that. You know who had it? Bernie Sanders had it. He raised a lot of money with that. And we have a different side of the ledger, but we have the same thing. I mean, we have a tremendous amount. People are shocked. In fact, newspapers that truly hate me put it on the front page. They couldn't believe that. They actually were very nice about it. Because, you know, the month before, we raised nothing. I wanted to make sure I got the nomination, if you don't mind. OK. You know. I wasn't going to go wild. But once we started, we started in June. And in June, I think we did $51 million and then we did $82 million, and now we have very good numbers coming in again. So we're -- we're equipped. We have to get the people out. We have to get them out to vote. But we're equipped. We're going to do a job for you folks and you're going to be really happy in Virginia. OK?  And I'm not only talking, by the way, I'm not only talking about the miners. I'm talking about the whole state. Because look, Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs, right, since NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. A disaster. Didn't hurt him. It hurt every other president. That's where the country emptied out. Without an agreement, even aside  the existing U.S. trade deficit, with TPP. TPP -- it's a disaster. Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. It will be as bad, if that's possible. I think NAFTA is the worst economic development deal ever signed by any country, anywhere in the world. That's how bad it is.  And you know, I said, and it's part of my platform. I made a speech the other day, some of you saw it. I said we're going to renegotiate NAFTA. And they said, well supposedly, they don't renegotiate. I said that's OK, then we're going out. We're out of it. Because it's sucking our jobs out of the country. I tell this story because it's such a perfect story. I could go out and hire a consulting firm, pay them a million dollars, and they'll spend months, you know, telling me what's going on with here and Mexico and the different places. Right? But I have much better. I have a friend who builds plants. I say, how are you doing? He said unbelievable. I said, great, it's going well inn the United States? He's a U.S. guy. He loves this country. He said, no, Donald, it's going unbelievable in Mexico. He said we're building some of the greatest plants in the world. He said -- he called it the eighth wonder of the world. He said Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world. I said, how about here? He said, not so good, not so good. Can you believe this? He's an American guys. He wants to build here. But just through years and years -- I think he's the biggest in the world with plants, or just one of them. But he builds plants. And he's really -- he can't believe what's going on in Mexico. Now, that's better than hiring the consulting firm and saying, tell me how we're doing against Mexico. I mean, I know the answer, because he can give me the answer better than any guy that graduated from the Wharton School of Finance that you're paying a lot of money, and he'll go around and do surveys, right?
It's common sense. And it costs me nothing. Right? But that's what's happening. That's what's happening. So not only is it the miners, it's -- you know, you look at manufacturing jobs are gone. But NAFTA's one of the worst deals ever signed by our country, certainly the worst in terms of economic development, what it's done to us. The destruction of manufacturing in Virginia was caused by Bill Clinton's signing of NAFTA. And then she'll come along. And she had a very interesting thing because two days ago in The Washington Post -- I was shocked. In fact, I had to read the story twice to believe it. They did a story on -- a big story. She was a senator form New York and she made tremendous -- you know, tremendous promises of what she was going to do for New York when she became senator. And she won the race and she was a disaster. We lost jobs, tremendous numbers of jobs. She said she's going to help rebuild upstate New York and all these places where all these jobs were taken because of NAFTA and bills that her husband signed. The whole thing. But she said she was going to do a great job and it was a disaster. She was going to create I think it was 200,000 jobs, 200,000 jobs. It was negative. It went to hell. It's all talk. It's all talk.  And now, she's doing the same thing. She's going to make a job speech or something tomorrow, a speech on the economy. Look at what she did during her term as senator. Take a look at what happened during her first term. Take a look at what happened. Take a look at the results. What she said -- of all newspapers, it was the Washington Post that did it. It was like the most devastating article. In fact, I think I'm going to use it on my stump speech because you can't -- it just doesn't get any worse. She promised the world and it went -- went like this. It went down. And she got virtually no legislation passed. She couldn't get anything passed. It was unbelievable. At the same time, or similar time a little while ago, they had an article about Donald Trump and what I did for New York and Manhattan and the buildings and the revitalization and all of that. I mean, they gave me a lot of credit for getting it all started and doing great jobs. And I don't want to brag about it, but I'm contrasting that...  And that's what we have to do for our country. We have to renegotiate our trade deals. We have to bring trade back. We have to bring jobs back to this country. We have to bring jobs back to our country. We're losing our jobs. I mean, frankly...  Frankly, any form of energy -- and we're losing our factories and we're losing our jobs and we're losing millions of jobs and we're losing thousands and thousands of companies. And they're leaving and they're going to other places. I mean, in particular, in terms of manufacturing, they're going into Mexico. Look at what's happening with Michigan, where Ford and others are building these massive car plants in Mexico. Folks, they're going to build cars and under Clinton, they're going to just build them there and let them come roaring in and all those jobs -- thousands of jobs. Over 100,000 jobs gone in Michigan -- car jobs. All car jobs. And -- and I'm going in front of Michigan. I think we have a good chance of winning Michigan, I think, because I've been talking about this for years.  And Hillary wouldn't know what to do. So I just ask people when she makes her speech tomorrow or whenever she's doing it, she'll stand at the teleprompter, she'll spin around a couple of times. Always a very short speech. Then she gets off the stage, she goes back home, she goes to sleep.
When she's -- when she makes her speech tomorrow -- very limited time. Did you ever notice? Very limited. Everything's very limited. No -- no effort, no time. Great effort, but doesn't spend any time. She'll make a speech and you'll see her a little while later. I mean, take a look during the primaries. Take a look at the whole thing. When she goes out and she makes her speech on economic development or on trade or on the economy or whatever she's going to be talking about refer yourself to yesterday. Take a look at the Washington Post. Take a look at the promises she made as a senator from New York and the jobs she was going to create. Take a look at what happened. It is a wasteland, what's happened up there. Our jobs got sucked away from us. Our factories are falling down, just from the rain and the wind, the ice, the snow. They're falling down. These plants are falling down. And you could envision 30, 40 years ago, 25 years ago, vibrancy. And now take a look. But you have to read this story. And I think the biggest shock -- if I read the story anywhere else, because I know the story. I mean, I now she did nothing. She had three minor bills passed. One was the naming of a building, and very little stuff. She did nothing. But if this were in any other paper, it probably wouldn't have made such a big impact. But this in the Washington Post, one of the most dishonest papers in the world in terms of me , what they say.  You know . The New York Times actually did a story, and this is sort of amazing. They actually said in way that they're biased toward me. They actually said it. They said we hate him so much. Essentially, they say we hate him so much, we're going to be biased. And most people have never seen a story like that. Even I was surprised. You know, normally you'd think they wouldn't want to admit it. They practically admitted it, but you look at it. But look at the Washington Post from two days ago. Look at the story on Hillary Clinton. Compare that with what she says tomorrow. We're never going to let her escape it. Because everything she says is all talk, no action. It's all talk. It's no action.  And the funny thing is that she put in a pretty unpopular guy, right? A pretty unpopular guy. So you have Bernie Sanders, who had big -- almost 50 percent of the vote and the whole thing was rigged -- the super delegates and everything else. But regardless, but he did a good job. The nice thing about Bernie's people is that they agree with me on one thing -- trade. Because he was so against what was going -- these bad trade deals. He just bought a $600,000 house, so he knows something about what's going on. You know, he's got some sense, right? But -- but about trade, we're in agreement. Now, the difference is I can do something about it. He would not be able to. He'd end it. I want to have trade with other countries, but I want to make great deals for our country. I want to make great deals for our country.  But she -- she took a person -- did you see how angry he was at the convention? He was so angry because he made a deal. And he made a deal that he wished, in my opinion, he wished he didn't make. Because his legacy would have been amazing if he didn't make a deal. It would have been a lot different. And on top of everything else, instead of appointing someone that is a little bit like, at least representative of that big faction of the party -- 45 percent. Instead of doing that, she appoints Tim Kaine. OK? Tim Kaine.  You can't get more different. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor of Virginia, from 2006 -- and you all remember, right? -- it was a disaster -- to 2010, the unemployment rate of Virginia more than doubled. Other than that, he's doing great.  Now, compare that with Mike Pence of Indiana. He did incredible. He's also incredible.  He's doing great. And the state's going great -- AAA bond rating -- doing great. And I'll tell you what, Mike Pence really has been fantastic. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor, the state of Virginia lost 60,000 manufacturing jobs. During Tim Kaine's tenure as governor of Virginia, it averaged only 1.1 percent in real GDP growth. Less than a week after Tim Kaine became governor of Virginia, he proposed a nearly $4 billion tax increase, including a tax increase on people earning as little as $17,000 a year. So everybody felt the brunt . And I could go on and on. It's -- I could just go on and on talking about his transportation disasters, everything else. And I watched him the other day and he was saying -- you know, he's won elections, but they've always been very close. He said, "Every election I win is very close." That's not a good thing, right? In other words, they were so razor thin. And then I said let me check. And I called up some friends and I -- you know, when they first picked him, I said, "Oh by, that's going to be tough," because we're doing -- we've got to win Virginia. I want to win Virginia.  And -- and what happened is -- so during -- during this period of time, I'm saying -- call up a friend, a friend calls me, three of four people call me. I have a lot of property in Virginia. You know, in Charlottesville, we have the property on the Potomac River -- Potomac Falls, Sterling, Loudon County. We love Loudon County. We have a lot of stuff. We employ a lot of people in Virginia. It's a great place. Great -- I don't know if you know my Charlottesville place, but it's a fantastic place. It's now a winery. It's one of the largest wineries on the east coast. We have a lot of employees there. They're going great  Virginia wine, which has become a very big thing. And...  So I have a big -- I have a big stake in Virginia. We have a lot of -- a lot of different property in Virginia. These two places are incredible. They're incredible places. But I figured she was going to pick somebody that was unbelievable. So I heard she picked somebody from Virginia, an ex- governor. I said, "Oh man, that's going to be tough. We've got to beat somebody" -- he raised your taxes by $4 billion in his first week.  He had negative growth. I mean, think of it. He raised your taxes by $4 billion. It was like a catastrophic governorship. And I don't get it. I don't get it. And everybody said to me, yeah, he wasn't very popular. And then I heard him talking how he's won races and every time, he prides himself on having just won. So I actually think he's going to be a negative in Virginia, not a positive. I really do.  I really do. But you know what? I wish him luck. I wish him luck. Whatever, whatever. But look, here's the story, folks. We have an election which is I think going to be the most -- and I know they say this -- everybody says it every four years. I thought it actually four years ago. But this is going to be -- I think it's our last shot. I know this. It is the last shot for the miners. It is the last for the miners. That I know. That I know.  And I'm not like a neutral for the miners. I'm not like, "Oh, well he'll be all right." Hillary will be a horror show and I'm going to be an unbelievable positive, but this is the last shot. Every -- the mines will be gone. The mines will be gone if she gets elected. 
I believe -- I honestly believe she'll be worse than Obama and I honestly -- I know that when she made the statement not so long ago about the miners and the mines are going to be gone, that was a statement that she believes. That was the real truth. That was -- it wasn't sitting down talking to the guy who's such a good guy. I've seen him on other programs and really a good representative in so many ways. But that's -- that's the real Hillary and that's what she's going to do. And she'll probably come in and she'll probably come down and see you. And she'll say oh well, I actually think -- she's -- believe me, folks. That's where she is. I hope you understand that these politicians can say anything they want and get away with it. It's really disgusting, OK? It's really disgusting.  So we're going to open up, we're going to do such a good job. And you know, I understand, you know, I grew up -- my father was a real estate -- I grew up with the carpenters, I grew up with the sheetrockers, I grew up with the plumbers and the policemen and the firemen and the whole thing. That's what I grew up with.  People say gee whiz, you're a rich guy but you get along very well with a lot of carpenters and a lot of electricians. I said yeah, that's what I did, you know, I mean that's what I did. And these are amazing people. The miners are amazing people, so.  So I -- I really -- and I say it, it's up to you. You've got to get out and vote. You just don't vote, you know? I don't know why. And I think it's because you've been beaten so badly as an industry, just beaten up so badly. I was talking about it with your congressmen. Just beaten up so badly that you just don't want to do it. And I can understand. You've got to do it. We've got to give it one shot, you know? Takes you 25 minutes or two minutes or 10 minutes.  You have nothing to lose. You have absolutely nothing to lose, believe me. You will be happy. You will be happy. You will be absolutely happy. So just a couple of other things. Immigration. We've got to have strong borders or we don't have a country.  Got to have strong borders.  We are going to have a strong border. We are going to have a strong southern border. We are taking in drugs and you're having the problem here big league . Up in New Hampshire where I won the primary, I got to know the people so well. And their number one problem they told me is heroin. I said heroin? Just doesn't go with the territory. These beautiful trees and lakes and rivers and so beautiful. Heroin? And it is their number one problem. And now, so many people, their youth is so addicted. And we've got to take care of that. We've got to stop it from coming in, comes in from the southern border. And I got the -- you probably heard. The border patrol agents, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed Donald Trump and they've never done it before for a president.  They've never done it before in a presidential -- 16,500. Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Arizona, great guy. He endorsed Donald Trump.  He probably knows borders better than anybody in the history of the world, right? Sheriff Joe, he's a great guy too. But he endorsed us and we've got to have borders. We've got to stop the drugs from coming in. We've got to stop illegal immigration. You know, illegal immigrants -- and we will build a wall, don't worry about it, we're going to build a wall. Going to have to, going to have to.  We're going to build a wall and Mexico's going to pay for the wall. They're going to pay for it.  Just so you understand -- look, some of these politicians would get off stage with me and they'd say you know that you can't build a wall. I said really? China just built 2,000 years ago.
China built a wall 2,000 years ago, 13,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we really need 1,000 miles because you have a lot of natural barriers -- lot of natural barriers. So you need a 1,000. But we have -- 2,000 years ago, a wall was built, the Great Wall of China. This is a serious wall. OK? This is a very serious wall. And we have to build 1,000 and we have Caterpillar tractors. We have Caterpillar tractors.  Not Komatsu. We have Caterpillar. We don't .  No, no. We have Caterpillar. We're going to start -- remember the old days? Made in the USA, right? Remember, they used to have Made in the USA. We don't have it anymore.  We're going to have signs just like, you know, they made these signs. I love them, too. But we're going to have signs -- look how beautiful on both sides. See? We cover them both. You like yellow. You like black. Yellow, black -- beautiful. We cover a lot of territory, right ? What a good looking group of people .  They'll be so happy in a year from now. They'll be so happy. It's going to go fast.  But I will say that -- so we have to build the wall. And we're going to build the wall. But, you know, the politicians would tell me, you can't build a wall. Really, can you build a wall? They don't know. I mean, I built 90-story buildings. Building buildings is tough. Building a wall, boy, is that easy. Pre-cast -- pschoom . And every time they fight me, it gets 10 feet taller, right? Every single time it gets 10 feet taller. It goes up. It goes up, up, up. The taller it gets, the safer it gets.  No, we're going to have a wall. And we're going to let people come into our country because we want people to come into our country. But they're going to come into our country legally -- legally.  And then I said Mexico's going to pay for the wall. Now, we have a trade deficit with Mexico of like close to $60 billion a year. Think of it. Mexico. They're making a fortune. So these politicians say -- because it's not their deal. It's not their deal. These politicians say, well, OK, maybe you can build it. But how are you going to get Mexico to pay? When you are losing so much money on trade, like we lose to Mexico, it's easy. The wall is peanuts compared to the kind of numbers we're talking about, where they're taking our jobs and building factories. So easy. But they don't know that. They don't know, because they don't have that instinct. It's not that they're bad people. Although in many cases, again, they're controlled by people that don't want to see the wall. There are a lot of people that don't want to see that wall built. And those are people that have reason to not want the wall built. And in many cases, again, they're representing their special interest groups, their lobbyists. Their donors are representing companies where it's not to the advantage to have the wall built. But we're going to build the wall. We're going to stop drugs from coming in. We're going to stop all of this illegal immigration. And I see a lot of military guys in the room. We have illegal immigrants treated better than our vets in many cases.  And that's going to stop.  We have vets that are treated so badly, the Veterans Administration is a disaster. We're going to take care of our vets. Our military is depleted. It's depleted. We're going to build up our military. We're using fighters that are 18 years old where they can't even get parts. They have to go to airplane graveyards to get parts for our fighter jets. Two went down last week. You saw that. So we're going to make a lot of changes, folks; going to make a lot of changes. So we have, just to sum up, Obamacare out.  Repeal and replace. Very important. Common Core -- we want education local. We're getting rid of Common Core.
We're getting rid of Common Core. And it's obviously not working. Look at what's happening with our education. Look at where we're ranked worldwide. It's not working, folks. We don't need bureaucrats in Washington telling us how to educate our children in Virginia, OK?  So we don't need it. Bureaucrats that make a lot of money, by the way. We're going to have strong borders. We're going to make great, great trade deals. We're going to bring jobs back. We're going to make money. We're going to make money for our country. We need money. We're losing a fortune. We're losing almost $800 billion. Think of it, $800 billion a year trade deficits worldwide, $800 billion. It's going to end, folks. It's going to end. We're going to have great relationships with these countries and we're going to trade with these countries, but it's going to be a two- way street, not a one-way street. Right now, it's a one-way street.  It's a one-way street to unemployment. They're stripping us. They're stripping us of our jobs, they're stripping us of our money. They're taking our manufacturing -- I mean, every time I come to a location, I have statisticians and they give me these numbers. I don't even need the statisticians no matter where I go. I mean, manufacturing way down, always way down. Not going up, it goes down. Keeps going to down. They're moving to other places. They're moving to other countries. They're moving a lot to Mexico. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. We're going to keep our companies and if they want to move, that's OK, but there is going to be retribution. It's going to be -- there are going to be consequences -- going to be consequences.  They want to sell product into our country, they're going to fire all our people. They want to sell product into our country, they're going to have to -- sadly, they're going to have to pay. You know, I use the case of Carrier. Every single air conditioning unit they make in Mexico, they're going to pay a 35 percent tax. And you know? You know what's going to happen?  Now, a lot of people don't like to hear that. A lot of the conservatives -- you know the conservatives. You know what's amazing to me? When I say I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA and make it into a good deal from a disastrous deal -- now, you always have to be prepared to walk, so there's a good chance we'll have to walk. But I'm going to make it into a good deal as opposed to a bad deal. I get bad stories . They said that's terrible. He's going to -- I'm like why? What's terrible? I want to make it a good deal. When I say I want to get the NATO countries to pay up -- they're not paying, right? They're not paying. Many of them. They're not paying what they're supposed to be paying.  So what I have -- we're supposed to protect these countries. They're taking advantage of the United States. And I think NATO's a good thing. But they're taking advantage of the United States. They're not paying what they're supposed to be paying. Maybe they're not being asked properly. But they're not paying. So we protect countries that aren't paying. They've got to pay up. And you know what they -- the money, if you add it all up, you know the kind of numbers we're talking about in this country? I mean, we go from a country that's really bust to a country that can just be incredible -- incredible. And then I'll get people saying I don't like NATO. I think NATO's wonderful. It was obsolete. I said ti was obsolete because it wasn't covering terrorism properly. And they all laughed and they smiled. They said, "Donald Trump said it's obsolete." Well, I'm not a great expert on NATO, but I have a lot of common sense, said it was obsolete. And I also said countries aren't paying up, those two things. But it was obsolete because it wasn't covering terrorism. And then about four months ago, there was a front page story in the Wall Street Journal. Got a lot of publicity. They smiled and, you know, said, "Trump said it's obsolete about terrorism," this and that. A lot of them left the terrorism part out. Then, about three months ago, front page here in the Wall Street Journal. NATO to develop terrorism unit. Wow. I said, "Thank you." That's good.  They gave me a tiny little mention, like about a quarter of a sentence. "Donald Trump was unhappy." But they gave me like a quarter of a sentence. That's OK. Big progress, right? Big progress. So we all know what we're doing. So here's the story. We're going to start winning again as a country. We don't win anymore. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to build up our military. We're going to do a lot of great things.  We've got to fix our infrastructure. We're going to fix our infrastructure so those Peterbilt's aren't going to be running over potholes and having lots of problems. Right? You know what I'm talking about. A friend of mine in the trucking business said the roads have never, ever been so bad. You know that, right? That the roads have never, ever been so bad. He buys beautiful new equipment and he said what these drivers go through with the potholes and the problems and the bad roads, he said, it's never been like this. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to fix our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our roads, our hospitals, our schools. We have so much to do. We've spent -- we've spent in the Middle East -- it used to be -- thank you -- it used to be -- I've been saying for years -- $2 trillion in Iraq. Iraq. We shouldn't have been in Iraq. I said don't go to Iraq; you're going to destabilize the Middle East. That's exactly what happened, and a lot of other things happened. Hillary Clinton's policies have been a disaster from the time she got -- look at Libya. What did we get out of Libya? I mean, that's been a disaster. You look at what she's done. You look at the bad decisions that she's made. You look at the bad judgment. Like Bernie Sanders said, she's got bad judgment. You look at the bad judgment. And now we're going to put her in charge of our country? We won't have a country left.  So I just ask the people of Virginia and the people in this room and in particular because we're in such a mining area, give it one more chance. I know you're discouraged. Give it one more chance. If you're not feeling good, if you're so sick you can't move, if your wife got angry at you and you don't want to get out of the house, say I'm sorry -- I'm just sorry, Charlotte. I'm going out to vote for Trump.  You have to vote. Give it -- seriously -- give it one more chance. Go out and sign those early ballots. Go out and vote on November 8th. You can sign the ballot and you don't even have to, but give it one more chance. I promise you, you will be happy. OK, fellows? These are tough cookies. I don't want to -- I'm not lying to these guys.  All right. You've got to get them out . Give it one more chance. And we're going to start winning again as a country. We're going to start winning again. We're going to win in so many different ways. We're going to make America great again. We're going to make America first. And we're going to make America safe again. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, everybody.  Thank you. Thank you, everybody. 

Thank you. What a beautiful crowd. Thank you. Thank you. What a group. Thank you. So, you know, outside we have a lot of people trying to get in. And downstairs, there's a room and it is loaded with people. It's almost this size.  And we're really -- we're really doing a job. So important to win the state of Pennsylvania. We're going to bring your jobs back. We're not going to let your jobs be taken from you. We are not going to let your jobs leave, folks. We're not going to let it happen. They're not going to Mexico. They're not going anywhere else. Your companies are going to stay, we're going to make them happy, we're cutting their taxes, we're cutting your taxes. Hillary...  Hillary, you probably saw yesterday, she proposed one of the biggest tax increases that anybody has ever seen. We're already the highest-taxed nation just about, but in terms of industrialized nations we're the highest-taxed nation anywhere in the world, folks. And she wants to tax us more. So we're going to be lowering your taxes very substantially. We're going to be simplifying the whole deal. You won't need H&amp;R Block anymore, believe me. You're not going to need them.  Middle-income people, the taxes are coming way down, they're coming way down.  And many people that aren't earning enough money, but they're out there really trying, they have no tax to pay. And it's going to be a very, very simplified procedure. So I want to thank everybody for being here. We're going to talk a little bit about security. I have something new with me tonight, pretty new anyway, it's like one-day old. It's called charts. Look. Charts. Charts. Do you believe it?  So we'll get into that. But I want to introduce a few people. And we have a man who has been somebody that I've known for a long time, somebody that I've respected for a long, long time. And he's your congressman, right? Do you know your congressman? You better know your congressman. So Bill Shuster is right here someplace. Come on up here, Bill. And you know, it's interesting, I'm looking about Bill, defeat ISIS with Bill, change Washington and fix the rigged system with Bill -- and me, too, by the way. I might even be more important to this than Bill, I don't know, but he's going to help. We want to secure our country. We're going to end Obamacare. We're going to rebuild our infrastructure. We're going to do all of these things.  Also, I want to introduce a woman who has been of incredible assistance to me, just incredible. The people love her. And come on up here, please. Come, come, Judy Ward, everybody. Judy? Bill, say something real quick. 

Thank you. Thank you, Judy. Thank you, Bill, very much. So what Bill has been saying is a little bit -- a little bit bad because we're talking about voter ID all over the country. They're approving in some cases, in some cases they're not. And you know, I went to school in Philadelphia. I went to the Wharton School of Finance in Philadelphia, so I know the state very well. My kids went to school here, two of them, and we love -- we love the state. But we have to be very, very careful about our day because we're going to have tremendous voter turnout. We're going to have unbelievable turnout. But we don't want to see people voting five times, folks. We don't want to see it. And I've heard some stories about certain parts of the state. And we have to be very careful. I don't even know, maybe you should go down and volunteer or do something. But without voter ID, there's no way you're going to be able to check it properly. We have a lot of law enforcement people working that day. We're hiring a lot of people, we're putting a lot of law enforcement. And by the way, speaking of law enforcement, do we love our police, right? We love our police.  Just met your chief. He's like central casting. You can put him in a movie right now. But we love our police. And I will tell you that I just -- and I can't say it any more strongly, we're going to bring your jobs back, we're going to bring so much back. We're going to make our country great again. We're going to make America great again. But...  But it's a tough process because, you know, I've been talking about a rigged system for a long time. And I'll tell you, whatever you can do. I know you're going to go out, I know this part of Pennsylvania is phenomenal. I just left Erie County. Erie has been, I don't know, I guess you've heard and Bill has heard and everybody has heard what went on there. We had 10,000 -- at least 10,000 people.  And they're going to go out and vote and you're going to go out and vote. We're going to have -- I guess they call it the big T. Maybe that's lucky. Have you heard about the T? They say that T is good. I wonder what that means. But I really -- I really say, look, November 8th, such a big day, you have to turn out. We're bringing your jobs back. We're going to renegotiate trade deals. NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton is a disaster. It's a disaster. I watched Hillary Clinton yesterday. She gave her short little speech reading a teleprompter on taxes are going to be raised. Can you believe it? She's got a massive $1.3 trillion, massive increase in taxes, massive increase in regulation. Now, speaking of regulation -- before I speak of regulation, Reince, I want to thank you. Where is Reince? What a great guy. Reince, get over here. Right, what a -- he has done -- thank you very much. Reince has done such an amazing job and they portrayed him slightly inaccurately. Reince, come here for a second, please.  The head of the Republican National Committee has done such a great job. We're friends, we work together, we work with a lot of other people. And I have to say, we have great unification. Now, every once in a while, you read about somebody that wants to be a rebel, they get a little free publicity for themselves. But the way we have gotten along. And I've raised -- I've put in a lot of money into the Republican National Committee, I've spent a lot of time and put in a lot of money. And I will tell you...  And I'm spending money on my own campaign. You know, I went through the whole primary system, I paid for it and I'm going through this. And I'm spending for me, but we're raising a lot of money for the Republicans. And honestly, I just want to thank this man because it is not an easy job. He has done an incredible job.  Thank you, man. Thank you, Reince, I appreciate it. They like to portray it a little bit differently in the press. These guys are the most dishonest people, the most.  And I'll let you know -- hey, you know what? We have a great relationship, we have just about from the beginning. When I first came out, I'm not sure Reince believed too much. So, you know, I understand. But if I didn't have a good relationship, guess what? You and they would be the first to know. And I would call and I would tell them and I would tell you. But we've had a special relationship. But somebody has to call us, so they write stories. Like, for instance, they wrote the story about the founder, right? Barack Obama, the founder. Oh, that's sort of nice. Do we like it? Turn him off. We like him better the other way. What was that? They didn't pay their electric bill, I guess, right?  But you know, you talk about -- Barack Obama has done such a poor job with ISIS that I have been, for numerous days, sarcastically saying that he is the founder of ISIS, right? You've heard that. And then I say they really like him a lot. Don't forget, when he took over, I think there was -- there were eight countries, seven countries. Now I understand they're in 28 countries. They're rampant all over the world, probably they're rampant here, too, because we're taking in so many people we have no idea who they are. So I say -- so I've been saying and I'll keep saying because it's true, but somewhat sarcastically, I've been saying he's the founder of ISIS. And I say she's a close second. And then I say -- but they cut it off in <AUDIO GAP> media, the dishonest media, they cut that off because that, you know, shows a little sarcasm. And I say they're going to give Hillary Clinton the most improved player for letting ISIS exist. Look, if it weren't for them, you probably wouldn't even have ISIS. Of course, he calls it ISIL, ISIL. You know -- and there are reasons to call it ISIL, there actually are. Geographically, there are reasons to call it ISIL, but he's the only one. And I honestly believe he calls it ISIL to make people angry because he is the great divider. And let me tell you, folks, he is a terrible, terrible president. He has done a terrible, terrible job. He is grossly incompetent and we have to make a change. And Hillary Clinton is four more years of Obama.  That's what she is. Four more years of ISIS, four more years of high taxes. Think of it, wants to raise your taxes. And I don't think you're going to put up with it. Four more years of -- well, I guess there won't be any e-mail scandal by that time. Can you imagine? Thirty-three thousand e-mails wiped out. Think of it, 33,000 e-mails wiped out. It's a very sad thing, folks. Well, we're going to get back to it. Listen, so I just went and I visited one of your companies, a great company, an amazing family, six generations, really seven because I actually met the seventh generation, you know what that is? You know how long? Andrew Jackson was president. Andrew Jackson, 1835. And you probably -- most of you know  that's right. You know Mike. Everyone knows Mike. So Mike McLanahan, an amazing guy. I met his son, I met his kids, his grandkids, I met everybody, I met his employees. And they're devastated because after all of these years, from 1835 to now, they're really having a hard time because of Obama and his ridiculous policies. And George Sidney works with Mike and the family, and they said things to me that I thought were incredible. And I said, "I know you don't do this for a living and you probably have never done this before, but if you could come up on the stage, we have a small group of about 9,000 people, if you could come up" -- and lots of television, look at all those people. Oh, they're so terrible. They are so dishonest.   For instance -- for instance -- so, as you know, right downstairs and next door we have a room like this with just about as many people. They're not going to cover that. They're not going to show these massive crowds. They're not going to say that in the history of this building, which I guess is 15 years old, this is the biggest crowd they've ever had by far, by far. They're not going to say that. They're not going to say that.  So 1835. I would like to have George and Mike just come up for a minute and explain the company quickly, how it started, where they are right now and what regulations and horrible, horrible policy has done to these great people. OK, come on up. Thank you. 

So Congressman Shuster, we just created two stars. And you know, it was so amazing, though. I looked and I love that stuff, I love plants, I love all of it. And I looked at the plant and you can see it's amazing, the age, but the cleanliness, the loving care that's given to the plant. I've seen plants that aren't so good. The care and the -- I looked at a piece of steel, as big a piece of steel -- I've seen big steel, but as big a piece of steel beam as I've ever seen. And I was talking to him about it. How do you get this in? How do you truck it in? What do you do? Do you splice it? What are you doing? And it was just fascinating. But I saw that, you know, so many years, so many years. And I said, so, how's business? They said it's catastrophic, it's a disaster, can't go on much longer. And I said, what's the problem? Is it regulation? Well, it's really tax and regulation. But I've found over the years, because I've met so many people, same position, incredible people. The difference here is 1835. That's a long time. That's one that's really out there. Andrew Jackson was president. You know, usually you'll hear, like, Ronald Reagan was president. That was a long time ago. But Andrew Jackson? So that was a long time ago. But when I see the love in that plant. And I met all the employees. And one of them was there 31 years. One of them there 21 years and 15 years, great people, and you know, it's just a question of time. Much smaller than it used to be, the dollar is killing them, killing them. It's not so much the dollar, it's that other countries are absolutely -- you know, what they're doing. Well, it's China and it is China, but it's others, and the devaluation of their currencies. The devaluation of their currencies is absolutely killing our companies, killing them. And we let these people get away with murder. And we're the piggy bank. Remember, they come in, they dump their product. Next is going to be steel, you watch. First of all, they're killing your coal, they're totally killing your coal, and that's one of Mike's problems also. Because the stuff they make for coal, I mean, they don't need it anymore because the mines are all being closed and the miners don't have jobs and they want to have jobs. You know, I was in West Virginia where I had a tremendous victory, I got a massive vote. And Hillary Clinton a few weeks before that, she didn't know people were listening, and she said we're going to put the mines and the miners out of business, all right?  And then, do you remember, she went to West Virginia and she sat around the round table with that beautiful miner and his family -- that beautiful miner and his family, and in very, very sad terms he was explaining how they want to be miners, right? And she was trying to say she was only kidding, essentially. She was trying to -- yeah, she was lying. Hey, look, look, has anybody lied as much as Hillary Clinton? Has anybody? You look at the FBI director and you see what went on with the e-mails, you see how she got away with that. I think that that will go down in her career as her single greatest achievement, how she got out of that mess. But she's not out of it yet. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Honestly, it's disgraceful. And you know who's more disgraceful, in my opinion? The media, because -- because they don't put her -- they don't put her to the task. They don't put her to the task. They don't do anything. They follow me and I'm on all the time. I do get much better ratings than her, in all fairness, though.  But the media concept is that don't put her on because if you don't watch her, she'll be OK. Right? Right? And then she goes out and she talks that she short-circuited, short-circuited -- the mind short-circuited. She was asked a question on Fox by Chris Wallace and the answer was so bad. I was watching, which is hard to watch because it's pretty boring to be honest, but she said she's short-circuited. And I said to myself, man, that's a bad one, oh, she's going to have problems. Wait until you see tomorrow. Nothing. What do you see the next day? Nothing. And I said to a friend of mine, can you imagine if I said that about myself? I would be all over every paper anywhere in the world, right? It's like I told you about, you know, sarcastically -- I mean, you ought to see these news organizations yesterday when I said Obama, right? Did you see that? That Obama is the founder of ISIS, he's the MVP, they're going to be giving him the MVP award and she's right there next to him. And you had to see. And they left the MVP stuff out because then you'd know. But you had to hear, did he mean it? What does it mean? We have nine panelists tonight...  We have one -- we have one panelist representing Donald Trump, we have eight panelists plus the moderator and plus another few moderators. Come on, folks, get in here. It is so ridiculous what's going on, the pile-on. A man that's been doing this for 45 years said it's the single- greatest pile-on of a candidate that he's ever seen. Every day, every single day, story after story after story. And I think they're going to be good stories. You know, I do good work. I've built one of the great companies of this country. I built this -- I did one of the great jobs, some of the great assets in the world. Very low debt, tremendous cash flow, that's why I can do this stuff, believe me.  You think it's cheap? It's not cheap. And by the way, in the primaries, I spent about $51 million, something like that, and -- which believe it or not was about the lowest amount of money for the majors, right? And I came in first in a landslide. Others spent much more than that, one spent many times more than that and came in toward the bottom of the pack. And I said to myself, isn't that what you want for a president, right? Don't you want -- you spend the least and you come in first.  Spend the least and come in first, wouldn't that be nice? And that's what we have to do. That's what we have to do. But Hillary Clinton will be so bad for our country, will be so bad for our country. And here's the thing, the press doesn't go after her. So she hasn't had a news conference in approximately -- in fact, her statement and a couple of other bad statements were made -- oh, don't worry about it. Go home. Go home. Like, go home.

So she's going home to mommy. Go home to mommy.  Go home. Go home. And you know the nice part? Her mother is voting for Donald Trump. It's great.  So it's an amazing thing that's happening. But they don't show her. So she hasn't had a news conference in, what, 255 days, something like that. The little one that she had, she tried to pretend. They were all her friends and they were asking -- and she gave such bad answers. But I just said, man, look at these answers. Wow. I don't want anybody to be hurt, but I said she's really going to be hurt by those answers. And what happened? Nothing. Although now, I will tell you, it was a little delayed reflex, but short-circuit really is catching on now very belatedly, because we don't want a president that's going to short-circuit. We have bigger problems than that. We have big problems in this country, we don't need that. So she wants to raise your taxes; I'm going to lower your taxes. She wants to raise your regulations, and you heard Mike and George talking about regulations, they're putting them out of business. And we're going to do such a massive decrease of regulation so that our small businesses can thrive and grow and start. Can't even start a small business.  So we have -- we have lots of things that we're going to be working on. But I'll tell you, big is we're going to bring our companies back, big. And for this area, honestly, we've got to bring our companies back. Our companies have gone to Mexico. I tell it now, for the last month I tell this. This is so inexpensive, because normally, you'd go out, you'd hire a big firm or you'd hire the Harvard guys or the Wharton guys and they'd charge you a lot of money, they do a report and they come back in six months, they'd charge you a million dollars. And you wouldn't know anything. Most of the reports you'd just take them and throw them. But a friend of mine builds plants, right? And he's just about the biggest in the world, maybe he is the biggest in the world, but he builds massive plants. And I said to him, how are you doing? He said really well. I said, where? He said, "Donald, you have to see what we're doing in Mexico. We are building some of the great plants anywhere in the world, car plants, computer plants, anything." I said, really? He said it's the eighth wonder of the world, Mexico. And he wants to build here. He's an American guy, he's a U.S. guy, he wants to build here. So I said, how's the United States doing? He goes just like this, meh. How stupid are we? How stupid are we to allow this? Our companies are moving to Mexico. As we talk today, and I said this before in Erie because we had a crowd that was massive in Erie -- and somebody said it's, like, a Democrat area. I don't think so, I'll tell you I don't think so. We had this massive crowd of people. But I said it to them. We can't let our companies go without consequence. We can't let our companies be stripped out of our country, open up a plant somewhere because of a NAFTA agreement that was signed by Bill Clinton, with a wife that won't be -- she won't be able to do a damn thing about it.  There have to be consequences when they leave and they fire all their people. And the consequences when they make their product and they want to sell it through what will soon be a very, very strong, powerful border, they're going to pay a 35 percent tax on that product. And they're not going to leave, they won't leave.  Don't worry about it, folks. They won't be leaving. They won't be leaving. So in this area, because it's been hit so hard and the coal has been hit so hard -- you know, in Erie they have General Electric and they're stopping with the big locomotives. It's way down because the coal is way down. It's way, way down, tremendous unemployment. Well, all of that's going to stop. So we're going to open our minds, we're going to work with our steelworkers and our miners and all of our people.  And you know, look, my whole theme of what we're doing is very simple. He's got it on his cap. There are hundreds of people that have it on their caps. It's called make America great again. America first, make America great again.  Now, believe me, the jobs are coming back, folks. That's going to be so easy. A friend of mine said, why didn't somebody else think of that? And honestly, they don't think of it because they're politicians. And other than Bill, who would understand that immediately, right? Bill has no doubt, and Judy, and he is, Bill is a business guy. But these are politicians that, number one, are controlled by special interests and lobbyists, right, and donors. And a lot of times they don't want it because they own companies that want to move across the border, there are a lot of reasons. A friend of mine recently said, Donald, how could a certain deal have been made a month ago? He said it doesn't make sense, it's so bad for the country. He said, boy, those politicians are stupid. I said, no, they're not stupid. They're getting massive campaign contributions. They're getting massive donations. Isn't it nice that I do what I do and I just spend a lot of money? I'll tell you, I hope I win. I'm going to feel very, very foolish if I don't win. But when they call me because they need help in moving their company out of the United States and firing a lot of people, folks, I couldn't care less. They didn't give me anything, I couldn't care less. We're going to keep our companies and we're going to bring new jobs back in. And they're going to come roaring back in with a new tax on business. They're going to come roaring back in. And they're coming in to this area. And we're going to cut regulations and our favorite, unbelievably old company is going to thrive again, hopefully better than it's ever been since Andrew Jackson. OK?  So one of the things that we have to do, and there's so many, one of the things we have to do, Supreme Court justices, right? The new president is going to have probably -- next president, probably more picks of Supreme Court justices. We lost a great one with Judge Scalia, lost a great one, we lost a great one, a great guy. I met him a couple of times, what a great, great guy, very conservative principles, very smart. And he wasn't -- and that wasn't supposed to happen, that was supposed to be another 10 years, 15 years. So we have one before we start. We could have four, we could even have five; probably we'll have three. But when I watch these people, never Trump, those poor, poor, sad people. They've been saying never Trump now for two years. Never Trump, never Trump. Trump gets more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party, and then never Trump, never Trump, never Trump.  I don't get it. I don't get it. Never Trump. I mean, we won massive numbers of states, far more than -- there wasn't even a second-place finisher, frankly. So we won these massive numbers of states. We won almost 14 million votes, and that's with 17 people, don't forget. When Ronald Reagan ran -- great guy, by the way -- when Ronald Reagan ran and when others that did well ran, they're running against two and three people and four people. I ran against 17 people and got more votes. Think of what that means. We got more votes than anybody. We brought in new votes into the Republican Party. That's all not being registered in different forms of media. They're not talking about the fact that the Republican primaries were up 60 percent and the Democrats were down 20 percent. So with all the Bernie stuff -- and we like Bernie. Look, Bernie, the system was rigged. And we're going to watch Pennsylvania very quickly. We're going to watch Pennsylvania. Go down to certain areas and watch and study and make sure other people don't come in and vote five times. Because if you do that -- and I know you're all voting. Is everybody here voting?  If you do that, if you do that, we're not going to lose. The only way we could lose, in my opinion, I really mean this, Pennsylvania is if cheating goes on, I really believe it. Because I looked at Erie and it was the same thing as this. And I've been all over the state and I know the state well, I know the state well. But let me just tell you, I looked all over Pennsylvania and I'm studying it. And we have some great people here, some great leaders here of the Republican Party and they're very concerned about that. And that's the way we can lose the state. And we have to call up law enforcement and we have to have the sheriffs and the police chiefs and everybody watching because if we get cheated out of this election, if we get cheated out of a win in Pennsylvania, which is such a vital state, especially when I know what's happening here, folks, I know. She can't beat what's happening here. The only way they can beat it, in my opinion, and I mean this 100 percent, if in certain sections of the state they cheat. OK? So I hope you people can sort of not just vote on the 8th, go around and look and watch other polling places and make sure that it's a hundred percent fine. Because without voter identification, which is shocking, shocking that you don't have it -- many states it gets approved and some states they don't get approved. And I have still -- I'm supposed to be a smart person -- I have still -- I have yet to understand how you cannot approve voter identification, at least in some form, right? So we're going to do things that are going to be amazing, I really believe, on November 8th. We're doing well in Florida, we're doing well in Ohio. I think we're going to do well in Virginia -- we're not doing as well there now, but I actually think we're doing really well, I just don't think they're giving us the credit. We're still pretty close. But we're doing really well in certain states that no other Republican would even waste their time with. We're doing well in lots of different -- we're doing well in Michigan. Hey, look, I've been talking about Michigan being ripped off with their car companies moving to Mexico, for two years, OK? They don't talk. Hillary doesn't know about it. Hillary, aye, aye, aye .  Four more years of Obama, but worse, and run by the machine and total dishonesty, total dishonesty. I mean, again, look at the e- mails. Remember, 33,000 e-mails, 33,000 e-mails and it's OK, it's all right. Don't forget. Well, maybe it is OK. No, it probably is. 33,000 -- she needed a few for the wedding and she needed some for yoga class, right? So I figure two for yoga class, five for the wedding, where are the rest? Boy, oh, boy, would I like to see. Hey, can you imagine what's on those e-mails? Now, they say that NSA has those e-mails. You know that, right? They say they have them. They say NSA has everybody's e-mails, but they say that NSA has the e-mails. So if they have the e-mails, if they have the e-mails, I think maybe should they give them out? I don't know -- I don't know, I don't know what the law is. But they say that they would have the e-mails. I guess somebody came out from NSA and they said we have everybody's e-mails. So I don't think they tried too hard. Do you, folks? I don't think they tried. We'll see what happens. The other thing we need, we need security at our border. The Border Patrol agents, 16,500 Border Patrol agents endorse Donald Trump -- sure of  the first time they've ever done this in a presidential race, 16,500. And believe me, if they didn't, their job is a lot easier, just walk right by, go ahead. The other way they have to stop them, bring them back, it's a lot more work. They're great people. But 16,500 endorsed me. Sheriff Joe Arpaio from Arizona, like, a great man. He's been on the borders for 50 years. I can't imagine. And he's tough and he's smart and he's strong and he's a good person. I'll tell you -- I've gotten to know him -- thank you -- I've gotten to know him very well. He's a good person. But he knows what's good and he knows what's fair and he endorsed me and that was a great honor. OK? And a lot of other people. By the way, a lot of other people, but on the border.  So here's the story. So many people when I walked in, would you read The Snake tonight? I don't know, have you heard The Snake, anybody? Has anybody heard it? Raise your hand if you've heard it. Not that many, it's great. Is it OK for the ones that have heard it if I read it? Is that OK? Written by the great Al Wilson years ago. So we need a strong border because drugs are pouring across, crime is pouring across. It's rampant, rampant. And when I originally ran, when I made my first statement, I talked about illegal immigration. I talked about problems that we have. It turned out to be true -- it turned out to be true. So we have problems where our military is depleted; we have to rebuild it. We have problems where our vets aren't being taken care of; we have to take care of our vets.  We have massive problems with education, and we have to end Common Core, and we have to bring education local.  We have to repeal and replace Obamacare, we have to do it.  We have to save our Second Amendment.  The NRA, by the way, endorsed me early. I think it was the earliest endorsement they've ever given. But the NRA endorsed me, terrific people. They love this country, let me tell you. They love this country.  And you know, it's interesting. San Bernardino, they walk in, boom, boom, boom, Paris, Orlando, so many places. Now, Paris actually has among the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world. You don't have guns, unless you're a bad guy you have guns because then you're allowed to walk in with guns. Right? But you obey the law, they don't have guns. Toughest gun laws they say in the world, who knows? So these thugs, these horrible, horrible -- I was going to say human beings, but I would say these horrible animals walk in to various places, all fairly close together, and they just start, boom, boom, boom, you get over here, boom, boom, boom, 130 killed. Many, many, hundreds, people don't know this, hundreds in the hospitals never really to recover. I mean, some are so badly wounded. Same thing, San Bernardino, 14 people killed, many, many people still in the hospital. I mean, their lives can never be the same. And I'm just saying, if we had people in that room, if we had some people in any of those rooms with a gun right around here...  ... where when they see it's going to happen, the bullets start flying in the opposite direction.  You really would have had a whole different story. And you know, if they knew that you had guns where the bullets are going to go in the opposite direction, they'd probably say let's take a pass, OK, let's not even go in. So we're allowing -- we're allowing -- tremendous numbers of people into our country from Syria, from parts of the massive terrorist world. We have no idea who they are. Law enforcement says there's no way really to vet them. There's no real paperwork, there's a lot of false paperwork. And we're allowing -- and Hillary Clinton wants to allow <AUDIO GAP> 550 percent more coming in than Obama.  So I read this today and so many people standing outside they heard me, they said, would you do it again? I said I'll do it again. And it's called The Snake. And it represents, in my mind, what's going to happen in our country. Because this is like the Trojan horse, we're allowing people in. And I have a bigger heart, I have a big heart, I want to take care of people. I want to build safe zones in Syria, I want to have the Gulf states pay for it. We don't have -- hey, we're at $20 trillion, OK, folks? It's time we stop. We've spent probably $4 to $5 trillion in the Middle East. You know what we have? Nothing, nothing. If we would have done nothing in the Middle East, we would have been unbelievable. So we've spent all of this money in the Middle East, we have nothing for it. So here's the story. I read this, I immediately thought of our border, OK, immediately. And I said to myself, guess what, I'm going to put this in the form of a poem and I'm going to read it when I'm of that mind. Because you see what's happening, you see what's happening in Germany, you see what's happening in France. Look at France, look at what's going on in France with Nice, with all of the things going on in France. I have friends that won't go there anymore. I have a friend, he thinks Paris, the city of lights, he thinks it's the most beautiful city. I said, how are you doing, did you go to Paris yet this year? I don't go to Paris anymore, France is no longer France. How stupid are we? How stupid are we? When you see what's going on, how stupid are we? So we're letting these people in, right? This is a tremendous mistake. Look at what one person did, one sicko, wacko whose father was sitting behind Hillary Rodham Clinton with a big, red hat on and a big smile on his face. You see that? Was that a smile? He's sitting behind her. And as soon as I saw that and I heard he was there because he came over, we think it's him, and he had a red hat, I said, oh, no, don't tell me, but it wasn't. It was not make America great again hat. But you see this guy sitting back there. And his son had just killed so many people in Orlando. And here's the story, so I read this, and a lot of people love it. And think of it as what happens if we're not smart, tough and vigilant with our borders, with people coming in that we don't know about them, that we don't know who they are, where they come from, especially when you have a track record of violence all over the world. What the hell do we need it for? We'll build safe havens. But what the -- what are we doing? So are you ready, folks?  Called The Snake. On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake. His pretty-colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk, then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now, she hurried home from work that night, as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken had been totally revived. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake. Now, she clutched him to her bosom, you're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly might have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. I saved you, cried that woman, and you've bit me, heavens, why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.  Be careful, folks. Be careful, Altoona. People put all over the country, we don't even know where the hell they're being put. You know that, right? Your government officials don't even know, many of them, don't even know. Your governors don't know, your senators don't know, you don't even know. This could be the great Trojan horse. This could replace the story of the Trojan horse, OK? So I brought something special for you. We're going to go quickly because I want to get the hell out of here, I want to go home.  But I'm only leaving if you promise -- if you promise -- than on November 8th you're going to vote for Trump and we're going to make America great again.  All right. You ready? All right. Congratulations, Pennsylvania. Great job, great job. Great job, Governor Ridge. Great job. The Clinton's legacy: One in three manufacturing jobs in Pennsylvania has been lost since NAFTA. Would you say that's something to be proud of? I don't think so. One in three lost since NAFTA. Not too good, right? I love these boards. Look, here's a beauty -- here's a beauty. I just -- I love charts, I love charts. And they always said, you know, it's too tough putting a screen up, you've got to get guys, it costs too much money -- I don't like to spend money. This is a cheap version of a screen, OK? It's just as good, but you need good, strong hands. So, look, you ready? So there it is. So U.S. home ownership, right? Lowest in 51 years, right? So the American dream, folks, the American dream, there it is, the American dream. Here's Obama, here's where we are right now. Home ownership, the American dream is to have a house, to own a house. Here's where we are right now, folks. Wow, wow. Great -- great job -- great job, Obama. All right, here's the snake. The snake, do we like the snake? No I don't like the snake. So Syrian refugees admitted to the United States, monthly totals since October of 2015. Look, look, how stupid are we, folks? How stupid are we, folks?  Look at that. And Hillary Clinton, again, wants 550 percent more. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. You better get out there and vote. Here's another beauty. Number one, ready? Number and percent of immigrants in the United States 1900 to 2010, plus Census Bureau projections. Look at this, OK? Go ahead, go ahead. A lot of them coming in from Syria, from places that are rough places, OK, rough places. OK. So here's something. So I spent a lot of money on my campaign, I continue to spend a lot of money on my campaign, that's good. And I'm not looking -- you know, I'm raising a lot of money for Reince and for the whole Republican Party. A lot of people don't understand that, but that's OK. But I've raised a lot of money. We took in $51 million in June, we took in 82, I think, million dollars last month.  And I don't think they even know I'm doing -- I'll be honest. Some of these people, they're saying, like, well, we don't know if we like Donald Trump. I'm raising so much money for these people. Oh, but that's OK. They'll figure it out soon. I'm telling you, soon they're going to figure it out. And the other ones, you know, when you hear never Trump. How about never Trump? Think of this -- think of this, never Trump, never Trump. I told you, we got the highest vote in history, but never Trump. Supreme Court justice -- so it's not me, it's going to be Hillary. If it's Hillary, you're going to have super-left-leaning judges. You're going to have a country that's destroyed probably forever. It would be 75 years, but probably forever, OK? How could they not say Trump? But they defeated and they were defeated. They've been saying for so long never Trump, years, never Trump, and they're embarrassed. So we understand. But you know what? It doesn't matter. Because if we win, it doesn't make any difference. But I'll tell you what, I'm going to say never them, never...  So, you see what I did here? Look. So in one way, I feel a little foolish, to be honest. I showed this yesterday. I feel a little bit foolish. Hillary, Hillary -- these are hedge funders. Now, I know the hedge funders, many of them. Some are semi-friends of mine, some are sort of friends of mine, tough guys, tough people, tough women in a couple of cases, not too many, but tough, tough people, smart. And they give her millions and millions of dollars. They're not doing that for their health. They're not doing that for the good of the country, folks. This I can tell you. These are tough people. Frankly, they're people that I'd like negotiating for, let's say, against China. You know, we have all of these political hacks negotiating our deals. But I have some, like Carl Icahn, I have some of the great people on my side, some of the greatest businessmen in the world, and they love it because they want great trade deals and we're going to renegotiate our trade deals. And Hillary Clinton said, after hearing me yesterday, we are going to renegotiate, the other day, we are going to renegotiate our trade deals. She never even thought of it before. And she can't do it because her donors won't allow her to do it, folks, a hundred percent. Do I know this business, or what? Hey, I used to be a donor, now I'm a donor to myself for my own campaign.  And you think it's easy? It takes guts to run for president, don't kid yourself.  So look at this one. So this is a campaign contributions from hedge funders, these are the tough ones, hedge fund guys, hedge fund people. Hillary Clinton, crooked Hillary, $48,500,000; Trump, $19,000. I don't even know who it is.  And look, they had a terrible picture of Hillary, which I felt was unfair. I said don't do that, get the best picture you can find. And I'll tell you what, honestly, I feel much better about it. No, they had this terrible picture, it was unfair. I'm a very fair person. $48,500,000 against $19,000 -- I'm going to give the $19,000 back, it's ridiculous. I don't know who the...  This is just a list of some of the countries, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Algeria, Qatar. These are millions of dollars given to Hillary Clinton. You think she maybe will do what they want her to do? So here's your total national debt, total national debt, it's doubled under Obama, will more than double by the time he gets out. And you know the bad thing -- I was thinking about it today. Yes, it's tough, but we'll be at $20 trillion. Nobody even knows what that is. We're going to be at $20 trillion. But here's the thing. If it doubled, Bill, as an example, if it doubled and our roads were in great shape and our schools and our hospitals and everything was good, right, if our bridges and tunnels were beautiful and new and fresh -- 50 percent of our bridges are in trouble, our tunnels are a mess. You ever go through these tunnels? The tiles are falling off the roof, right? You know, as a builder it's disgusting to me. You go through these tunnels and you say, I wonder, were people injured? You see tiles. You know, they used to be beautiful, white tiles, right? And now you'll see big openings where patches have fallen off. I say, there are cars driving 40, 50 miles an hour through. I mean, if those tiles fall and the people get killed, right? Now, I don't know, I don't read about it. But you look at our tunnels, they're disgusting, they're dirty, there's soot, the tiles are all off. The roads are in bad shape. So if you had $20 trillion and everything was tippy-top -- I like tippy-top. Everyone who goes to my buildings and my clubs, they're tippy-top, right? Tippy-top. We're opening up a hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue over a year ahead of schedule and way under budget, and it's the best. And it's better than we projected. It's going to be one of the great hotels of the world.  Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. So the way I look at it, I'm going to get to Pennsylvania Avenue one way or the other, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care.  One way or the other. But that hotel is under budget and ahead of schedule by more than a year. Wouldn't it be nice? You know, I was recently traveling to -- I won't mention the location because they're incredible people -- but I was in an area where they have a hospital, a veterans' hospital that's under construction. I said, how's it doing? Oh, Mr. Trump, sir, it's a disaster. Why is it a disaster? It's not that big, why is it a disaster? Well, we have a $1.2 billion -- billion -- cost overrun. I said, a billion dollars? How can you have a billion, how can you have $1.2 billion? Do you think those contractors and those subcontractors are making a couple of bucks on that, folks? How stupid are we to let this happen? How stupid are we? $1.2 billion for a hospital. That should be a tiny fraction of that to build it, to build it. So here's the story, folks. We have to get out on November 8th. I'm going to come back. I'm going to be in Pennsylvania a lot. I'll come back again and visit you.  But you've got to get out and vote. You've got to get out and vote. And I promise you we're going to do such a great job, you're going to be so proud of your country. You're going to be so proud -- less importantly, but you're going to be so proud of your president. I'm a messenger. I'm a messenger for common sense. I'm a messenger for doing what we all know has to be done. But we don't win anymore, but we're going to start winning again. We're going to win with our military, which I said before is very, very depleted. But we're going to build it up and we're going to make it strong and we're going to make it powerful. And hopefully, we're not going to use it other than to knock the hell out of ISIS. We have no choice.  And we're going to take care of our vets, our great vets. And they have not been taken care of. And we're going to have strong borders, and by the way, we're going to build the wall and we're going to stop drugs from coming in.  And Mexico is going to pay for the wall. And we're going to save our Second Amendment.  And we're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And we're going to make the greatest trade deals we've ever made. Jobs are going to come flowing back. We're not going to let our companies go. We're going to be the smart people. And we're going to win and win and win, and we're going to win so much that the people in this room are going to call up their congressmen and say, congressmen, we cannot stand it, our president is winning too much, we're not used to it. Please, please, Mr. Congressman, please go see the president and talk to him. And I'm going to say, when he comes into Washington, Bill, I'm sorry, I can't do that. Actually, I want to win much more. We're going to win so much. We're going to win at every single level. We're going to make America first, and we're going to make America great again. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.  

Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Unbelievable. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's a great honor. Thank you.  Amazing. Amazing. What great people. We're going to bring back our jobs to Pennsylvania. We're going to bring back our jobs to the United States.  Going to bring back our jobs, folks. I've looked at the numbers and I see what's happening in Pennsylvania. I see what's happening all over our country.
You look at New York state, you look at New England, you look anywhere in the country where you want to go to, all over it's the same. Manufacturing way down, jobs way down. You go to other countries, they're taking our companies, they're taking our jobs. People are right now working harder than they've ever worked. Eighteen years ago they made more money in real wages, 18 years, think of it. Eighteen years ago many of the people in this incredibly big room, and thank you for being here, you know it's 93 degrees out.  And they still have a lot of people trying to get in, I don't know if they can get them in. Should we let them in? Just let them in.  But 18 years ago, people were making more money in real wages than they make today. And today they're working two jobs, some people are working three jobs. So they're older, and they're working harder, and they're making less money, all right? A friend of mine, I've been telling this story over the last month because it's better than going to Wharton or better than going to Harvard and asking them to do a study, because you learn it in three minutes. But let me just tell you. Right now, Mexico and other countries are building facilities, plants, the likes of which you've never seen. We're going to build the wall, don't worry, we're going to build the wall, we're going to build it, we're going to build it.  But a friend of mine, and actually a supporter, big supporter, great guy. He builds plants, that's what he does, he builds plants. He doesn't want to build apartments, he doesn't want to build office buildings, he wants to build plants. And he's just about the biggest there is. And I said how are things going? He said very well, how are you doing in the U.S.? Not good. How are you doing in Mexico? He said Donald do you want to see, it's the eighth wonder of the world. They are building plants, the likes of which I've never seen. He's building some of the greatest plants, big -- you look at Ford moving vast operations to Mexico. The plants. You look at -- look at, take a look. By the way, millions of jobs, thousands of companies over the years, they've left us. And we have a few things. We have unemployment, we have empty plants, I saw up in New York state, I saw it in Pennsylvania, you were great to meet, you voted a big victory for Donald Trump, thank you.  That was a big victory. I mean I assumed I was going -- if I don't win Pennsylvania -- and by the way, I was talking to our great Congressman, and where is he? He's here some place, where is he?  He loves the people, and I have to say, of all of Pennsylvania he wants to see this state do well. Thank you. But just talking back to a few of my friends that live here, we have a few of the friends and we see what's happened with General Electric where they're cutting way back. Not going to happen. And you know why they're cutting back, it's one reason. Because we don't take care of our miners and we're not producing coal. And they don't need to make those big, big beautiful, you could call them locomotives I guess, right? Whatever the hell they are, they're big and they're powerful and they don't need them like they used to because we don't make our government work for us. They're not working for us. They're working for others, they're not working for us. So when General Electric goes out and you see the numbers, I see the numbers, and it's about coal, so I just left parts of Virginia and West Virginia, and the coal industry's decimated. The miners are out of work, they're totally out of work. I mean there will be no such thing as coal in this country pretty soon. And we're talking clean coal, we're talking clean coal.
So I was with the miners, we have such tremendous support, West Virginia, the mining parts of Virginia. All over, Ohio, because Hillary Clinton made the statement not so long ago. A number of months she said, we're going to put the mines and miners out of business. All right? Going to put the mines and the miners -- so...  So, we're not going to let that happen. We're not going to let that happen and we're not going to let it happen in Pennsylvania because you know what? A lot of your miners have already lost their jobs, but you have a lot of other jobs that are very reliant on the mines. Like, as an example, General Electric. And what we're going to do, folks, is going to be so special. We're going to bring it back. We're going to bring back our jobs, we're going to bring back our companies.  When a company wants to leave our country to go to another country and think they're going to make their product, and because our politicians are weak, stupid, taken care of by lobbyists, special interests -- they're taken care of by lobbyists, they're taken care of by donors and special interests. That's what -- you know, a friend of mine -- very smart guy -- said -- I can't believe it. We're talking about a deal that took place about a month ago. He said, I can't believe they could have gotten that through. I said, Why can't you believe it? Well, it's so bad for the country. I said, Yeah, but it's good for the politician because they're taken care of by their lobbyists and their donors and the special interests. So even though you say we want, as an example, General Electric to produce more, if they don't want to or if for some reason one of the donors of crooked Hillary Clinton doesn't want that to happen, even though it's great for Erie, even though it's great you, even though it's great for the state of Pennsylvania, then it's not going to happen, folks. It's not going to happen. And by the way -- and I have to tell you this. So when they think they're going to take our companies are rip them out of -- as an example -- this area or this state or any other state and go to Mexico and build massive new plants and employ people other than you, and you're going to lose your jobs or you're going to now get two part- time jobs that don't add up to half of what you used to make. That stuff isn't happening anymore. So here's what happens. They're going to build that plant. Now, if I were here five years ago and if President Obama put me and maybe secretary of keeping business in the United States -- that's my title, secretary of keeping business in the United States.  I mean, I like the sound of secretary of defense better. Oh, and by the way, we're going to build our military. We're going to be very strong.  Really . And we're going to take care of our vets. We're going to take care of our vets, believe me.  But I like the sound -- I like the sound of secretary of Defense. I like the sound of secretary of the Treasury. I like the sound of secretary of State. But I'll tell you, would I be good at keeping jobs over here. Would I be...   I'll tell you this. I just have to say the Bernie Sanders protesters were much, much stronger. They had much more passion, I have to say. 
All right. You know what's interesting? If I could speak to them for like five minutes -- we want a strong military, we want to take care of our people, we want good education, we want good housing, we want good healthcare. What do we want? We're all in for the same thing.  Really amazing. Really amazing. So I'll be your secretary of keeping companies in the United States, right? So, I would go to a company like Carrier Air Conditioner, which decided to leave Indianapolis, Indiana, and I would say here's the story. We think it's wonderful that you're negotiating with Mexico. I'm sure you're going to have a wonderful plant, but here's what's going to happen. If you build that plant and you fire all of these people, 1400 people who were so great to me. Indiana, I won that in a landslide. Actually, the timing was good. I won it in a landslide because I know what to do. Hillary doesn't know what to do. Did you see her yesterday? She has no clue about what we're talking about. Folks, she has no clue. She has no clue. Crooked Hillary. She doesn't know anything about it and, by the way, if she did, she couldn't do it anyway because her donors don't want to do it. There's reasons. But look, look. I would go to them and say just to keep them. Just to keep them. And I wouldn't even care that much. I'll tell you why. Ready? I'd say here's the story. If you leave, in this case, Indianapolis, you're going to go to Mexico, you're going to make your air conditioning units. Every single unit that you make that crosses our now very, very strong border we're going to charge you 35 percent of the cost of that unit. OK? Thirty five percent. Right? So simple. Thirty five percent the cost of that unit. We hope you enjoy your new plant. Very hot weather out there, very hot. We hope you enjoy your new plant, but 35 percent is coming to us. Now, here's what's going to happen if they haven't moved yet. A lot of them have moved. We've lost thousands and thousands of companies, we've lost millions of jobs - too late. I should have been there 10 years ago. Nobody would have left. Nobody would have left because you need the right messenger, you know, I'm your messenger in terms of this movement. But you need the right person saying it. So, here's what's going to happen. Normally they'd call up whoever it is that was putting the little order down like the new president and they'd have one of their lobbyists call up and they'd say Hillary, I'm sorry, you can't do that, they gave you $2 million for your campaign. Can't do that, Hillary. OK, I won't do that. With me, I'm putting my money up, folks. I'm putting my money up. Putting my money up. We're raising money for Reince and for the RNC, but that's for a lot of other reasons. We are putting - I'm putting a lot of money up. I financed my - I funded, not financed, I wish I financed, right? I funded but I funded my primaries and I spent less than anybody else in terms of the measures . So, here's a story - wouldn't that be nice? I spent less and won in a landslide. Other people spent much, much more. Three, four, five times more and they came in seventh. Who the hell do you want to have as your president, right? Right? Right? Oh, boy, and then they don't like me - couple of them, most of them have really supported us, but some of them just can't get over it. You know what I say to them? Get over it. We're just having fun. Get over it. You signed a pledge, I hereby guarantee that I will endorse whoever wins - you know, the funny thing, all those pledges, you know they were signed for different - they were signed so that I would sign it. And I would have honored it, I will say. Even if I wasn't fond or didn't like - I would have honored it because a pledge is a very important thing. But here's the thing. So, we are going to take these companies that haven't left - now, I'm looking at your numbers folks, you're not doing too well.
You're not doing too well here. Pennsylvania has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since - you know, that's massive, since NAFTA. NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton and I believe it's the single worst trade document ever signed in the history of our country and probably in the history of our world. It's one of the most one-sided documents that I've ever seen. And it allowed Mexico and places to do unbelievably well at our expense. And did you see where say, I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA, I'm going to -- TPP disaster. Ok, don't worry. Don't worry. And Hillary was in favor of TPP. She said it's the gold standard. Thank you for reminding me. I like this guy. It's the gold standard. TPP. Transpacific Partnership. It is going to be -- I don't think you can be worse than NAFTA honestly. But it's going to be as bad as NAFTA. So TPP, she said it is the gold standard. She's reading it from a teleprompter. It is the gold standard -- oh, boy. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble. So she said it's the gold standard. But when she heard me make a speech, as I understand it. And she heard me talking very negatively about it. As an example, they don't talk devaluation, which is the single greatest tool that these countries are using to kill the United States, including China. They devalue their currency. Well, it doesn't happen mention . Number one thing is not mentioned. So complicated, this agreement. Too many countries. By the way, I believe trade. I believe in trade deals. One country at a time. Boom. Boom. Boom. You got to see the lines. We'll have one line. And if they don't do well. If they don't behave themselves, if they want to start devaluing their currency all over the place, very simple, we write them a notice like we do in business. We serve them with a 30 day notice.  And by the way, you just saw, how great are our police, right?  Law and order. We need law and order. We need law and order and we will have law and order. Our police, our firemen - but our police do a fantastic job. They are not recognized for the great job they do. If they have 500,000 incidents all positively, beautifully handled, one bad thing happens, that one bad thing is on the news for two weeks and it's a disgrace. It's a disgrace. So we should be very thankful for the job they do. So, Pennsylvania is losing a lot of its business. Right now, we're sitting here, we're talking - oh, here's another one. Go home to Mom. Go home to Mom.  And your mother is voting for trump! She's voting for Trump. It's true. It's true. By the way, just to interject - so I was told this whole area is Democratic, meaning Democrat. And I was told that by a lot of different people outside and then they said I can't believe that you have 10,000 people, you have people outside trying to get in. They said, the came up to me, this is - happens to be a Democrat who I happen to know is a good guy -- came up to me and said I've never seen anything like it. It always goes Democrat. Is that a correct statement? Said, you are going to win Erie in a and the surrounding area - you're going to win in a landslide. Gonna be a landslide.  Because people are tired of lies, they're tired of losing their jobs, they're tired of seeing their companies being ripped out and going to other places. They're tired of China coming in and dropping steel all over the place to put your companies out of business, so we have to go to China to get our steel, which is happening very quickly. And that's why the steel workers are with me, that's why the miners are with me, that's why the working people, electricians, the plumbers, the sheetrockers, the concrete guys and gals, they're all - they're with us. And I grew up, you know they say, you know you're really rich, how come you sort of relate to these people? Well, my father built houses and I used to work in these houses and I got to know the electricians, I got to know all these people, I got to know the plumbers, the steamfitters -- I got to know them all.
And I liked them better than the rich people that I know. I know a lot of rich people. It's true. They're better. I like them better. So, anyway -- and, we are going to put people back to work. We're not playing games. And it's going to go quickly. By the way, it's going to go quickly. But look at this, OK. So, Erie, has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. You know that, all I -- you do -- I flew over, you're looking at the plants, plants that 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, some two years ago, were vibrant. But no plant two years ago was too vibrant because it was down to half, down to a quarter, down to a tenth, and then ultimately they closed, but you see them. They are falling over. The rain, the sleet, the snow, the wind. These are great buildings that are falling apart. Don't feel bad, all over the country. Upstate New York is a disaster, which Hillary Clinton said that she was going to fix. OK, so the Washington Post is extraordinarily dishonest and that's fine. But they wrote a story, I couldn't believe I saw this story, they talked about Hillary Clinton. It was a headline, Hillary Clinton and when she ran for the United States Senator from New York, she said to the people in upstate New York, which was starting to really have problems because of her husband's bill NAFTA. And companies were leaving, tremendous unemployment, tremendous problems, making nothing and she said I will turn it around, I will create 200,000 jobs, we're going to do a great job. Guess what? She got elected, she did nothing. And the only ones that benefited were the consultants and the people that helped her out. It is a disaster. upstate New York is right now worse than anything you have in the state of Pennsylvania, she did nothing. And I watched her yesterday, which was hard to do, because she is boring, OK?  I watched her yesterday talking about -- you know what's funny? I said I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA and they said what happens if you can't make a deal, I said we're going to terminate, we're getting out. And...  So I've been saying that and I've been saying we're going to renegotiate different trade deals, and we're going to make great trade deals and all this and she's never said that. All of a sudden, two days ago, I will renegotiate trade deals. She's not going to do it, folks. She's going to renegotiate trade deals the same way she was going to put 200,000 jobs in upstate New York. It turned out to be a total fantasy and I have to tell you, I respect the Washington Post for writing one bad story. Because you what they're doing? And Reince was alluding to it a little bit, the only way she gets elected is if they don't report on her. They don't show her. They have me on so much television. There's CNN, you talk about dishonesty, it's called the Clinton -- wait -- it's called the Clinton News Network, CNN. Now, think of it, Clinton is...  She's hardly ever on. So yesterday, they have yesterday, a scandal with the emails, another one. I'm not talking about the 33,000 emails that she deleted or got rid of. Can you imagine what was on those emails? Can you imagine? I love that. Can you imagine what was on those emails, 33,000 emails were deleted. And she said well it had to do with the wedding and yoga. I give two to yoga, I give five to the wedding. I'll tell you, the lies, the deception. We're running like they run right now a third world country folks, OK? You saw what happened, it's running like a third world country, we're being talked about all over the world, nobody can believe it. In fact, when they were going over the charges against Hillary Clinton, one after another after another after another, however, and yet other people, their lives have been destroyed for doing much less, all right?
Their lives have been destroyed. So now they have a big scandal in New York. It's in the New York papers, but very little. Pay right? Pay for play. And it's horrifying, it's horrifying. Our government is for sale. Our government is for sale by a crooked person. And what they're doing is they're trying to not talk about her. Take a look. You go to CNN as an example. Story after story about Trump. Story -- Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump. And yesterday, it was announced that people are tired of negative -- the hit jobs and CNN's starting to do very poorly. That's good. I like that. I like that. And I have to say, Fox has been treating us fairly. Fox has been fair. But CNN has been catastrophic. It's so dishonest. But somebody was explaining to me their theory. If they don't report on her, people aren't going to know how bad she is. Look at her news conference. She hasn't had a news conference in like 260 days. That last one wasn't a news conference. That was a few of her friends. They asked her a question. What did she say about the circuit, right? Let me tell you, if I ever said that, short- circuited, if I ever said I short-circuited, it would be headlines all over the world. They would call for the death penalty.  Can you imagine if I said that I short-circuited? I mean, I stand up here for months in front of massive crowds, she gets 300 people going to her events. She gets 300 people and then she reads something from a teleprompter and then she leaves and she goes home and she goes to sleep.  And then she wakes and she goes again. And I'm telling you -- and nobody does anything about it. Now me, I stand up here -- I'm not looking at notes. I'm not reading teleprompters. Not easy. Not easy. Not easy.  But -- but -- remember -- but -- and if I make one mistake  say, he mention something wrong. He got a wrong date. It's like headlines all over. She can say she short-circuited up here. I don't want a president who short-circuits. Is that OK? I don't want it. I don't want a president who short-circuits.  We've got to deal with ISIS. We've got to deal with China. We've got to deal with lots of people. They're not short-circuiting. But I don't want somebody that short-circuits. So let me just tell you -- let me just tell you. Over the last little while -- you know, every time, it's always a big deal. When I said that Obama -- and of course, I'm being sarcastic. And they know that because after I said that, I said he's the MVP, he's going to collect his MVP award. OK. So I said Obama is the founder of ISIS. The founder.  And these dishonest media people -- they're the most dishonest people. They said oh, did he mean that? Didn't he mean that? And after that, I'd say a lot -- in fact, they like him so much because he's been so weak and so bad. I mean, he let this happen. They had eight states. They had eight countries. They're now in 28 countries. They're expanding. So I said the founder of -- obviously, I'm being sarcastic. Then -- then -- but not that sarcastic, to be honest with you.  And they all said, he should not say that. They should call him an enabler. Call him an enabler. He's an enabler. I said, that doesn't sound the same. He's an enabler. People are going to say what's -- these people are the worst. But listen, so I said the founder of ISIS. And in fact, very soon he's going over to pick up his most valuable player award. Did I say that? I say it all the time. 
So they knew I was being sarcastic. By now they're analyzing. Did I really mean that? How could I say that? These people are the lowest form of life. I'm telling you. The lowest.  They are the lowest form of humanity. Not all of them. They have about 25 percent that are pretty good, actually. But most of them. OK. So, here's the story. So Erie has lost a lot. Right? You know that, right? Hang in, don't leave. I promise we can fix it so fast. We will stop these countries from taking our jobs. We will stop these countries from taking our companies. Hold on. Our jobs will come back. Now, I came up with a great plan. I'm lowering corporate taxes so our companies stay, so I don't even have to make the call. The corporate inversions - you know, we have companies that have, they say, two and a half trillion dollars outside of our comp  - they can't get their money back. We don't let them. Everybody agrees that we should do it. Republicans, Democrats, everybody agrees. What's the - look, why do we not want them to bring money back? You know why? Because we don't have a president that can sit the leaders of both parties around a table and in about five minutes let them say let's bring this money back in so we can work it in this country, right? That's what it is. So we're going to bring that money back in, we're going to lower taxes, we're going to keep our companies - and if our companies want to leave, they're going to pay a nice big beautiful tax to get their product back in. OK? That's what's going to happen. So, the existing U.S. trade deficit with TPP participating nations has already cost Pennsylvania 68,000 jobs, folks. No more, folks. We're not going to be stupid people any more, we're going to be the really, really smart people. It's going to be America first. America first. America first. First.  So, the destruction of manufacturing in Pennsylvania was caused by Hillary Clinton's and her husband's disastrous trade policies. I mean, you take a look at what she's done. At the bidding of her corporate funders, Hillary Clinton has backed every job-killing trade deal for decades. She has received so much money, she has approved virtually every tax increase put before her. Yesterday - you see 1.3 trillion in tax increases. We're the highest taxed nation in the land, essentially. We're the highest taxed nation in the world. Anywhere in the world. And of the industrialized nations, we're far and away the highest taxed nation. And she's proposing a massive tax increase. Folks, we can't do it. It's going to make our country non-competitive - it's already non-competitive. It's going to make our country non-competitive and we're not going to do it. I'm proposing a massive tax decrease for the middle class, for business, and businesses are going to pour in - not since Ronald Reagan has anything like this been proposed. Businesses instead of leaving because their taxes are so high, they're going to stay. I might not even have to make those calls. Now, if I do, I will, meaning my people will. I'll do some, I love doing it. I would love telling some guy you're not moving. Well, Mr. President, sir, we would like to move to Mexico. You're not moving and if you do you pay the 35 percent tax. You say Well, in that case, I'm not moving, I'm not moving. In that case, I'm not moving. So easy. So, your coal industry, your steel industry, which has been ravaged, your General Electrics of the world, which have been ravaged, just ravaged, we're going to end it and I'll tell you why. Over the years, I've watched. For years, for 10 years, for 12 years, for 15 years, beyond Obama, and I've watched as politicians talked about stopping countries from leaving - companies from leaving our states. You need strength, is right. Our states. And I watched. Remember they give the low-interest loans? Here's a low-interest loan if you stay in Pennsylvania, here's a zero-interest loan, you don't have to pay, here's a this, here's tax abatement of any kind you want, we'll help your - it doesn't work, folks, that's not what they need. They have money. They want to go out, they want to move to another country and because our politicians are so dumb, they want to sell their product to us and not have any retribution, not have any consequences.
So all of that's over and I think you understand it and Hillary can't do it. Number one, she can't do it because the mentality isn't there. She can't do it. No, the mentality. You know, she said fairly recently, I don't like Donald Trump's tone. His tone isn't nice. And I said, here we have a country that's being taken advantage of by every country in the world. Our businesses are being taken. Our jobs being taken. Everything's being taken. Here we have a world where ISIS is chopping off the heads of Christians and many others, drowning people in steel cages, burying people in the sand, and we have somebody up there who wants to be our president that says, I don't like Donald Trump's tone.  Folks, we better get smart, folks. Hey, look, let's see what happens. We better get smart. We better get smart.  We better get smart. We better get tough. And if we're not smart and we're not tough, we're not going to have a country left. And one of the things I have to talk to you about before I leave is our borders. Illegal immigrants are pouring into our country. In fact, I brought something for you people. I brought -- I brought -- I had to do this. I didn't want to depress you. OK, look. The Clinton legacy. Nearly one in three manufacturing jobs in Erie, PA -- Erie, PA, sound familiar -- have been lost since Clinton allowed a certain deal with China to happen. Now, look at this -- look at this chart. This is 2001, not long ago. This is now. Congratulations, folks. I hope you're doing well. OK? I hope you're doing well. I don't want to hurt them. I hope you're doing well. But you know what? You can't do well. When you have a government that is so stupid, that is so -- that is so incompetent, you can't do it. Here's another one, folks. This is what we're talking about. Syrian refugees -- we have no idea who they are, where they're coming from, no paperwork. You saw what happened in San Bernardino. You saw what happened -- frankly, take a look at all over the world. Take a look at what's happening. If we don't get smart and we don't get smart fast -- Barack Obama is allowing Syrian refugees to come into our country by the thousands. Now, I have as big a heart as anybody in this room and I want to build safe zones and I want, by the way, the Gulf states to pay for it because they've got plenty of money and they're not doing much. OK? We'll supervise it. OPM, other people's money. We'll supervise it, right? We'll supervise it. But they're going to pay for it because we're protecting these people. If it weren't for the United States, those countries wouldn't even exist. They'd be gone. The power we have is so enormous, but we have people that don't know what they're doing. We have an incompetent president. We have people that don't know what they're doing. So look at this. Look at this. Syrian refugees admitted to the United States on a monthly basis. Look what's happening. Look what's happening.  Now, in all fairness, we want to help people. Can't take a chance. San Bernardino, they walk in. They start shooting. Paris, the best, the toughest gun laws in the world, Paris, France. They walk in. They kill 130 people. They wound so gravely hundreds of people. Now, let me just tell you because well -- we're on  the Second Amendment, right, Second Amendment. If we had in San Bernardino -- if we had in San Bernardino or in Orlando or someplace, somebody in that room like this guy right here, right, or that guy with the blue make America great again hat on or the one with the red make America -- or that woman with the beautiful blonde hair. I wish I had hair that looked like that.  But if we had somebody and they happened to have a gun, San Bernardino, they see him come in -- first of all, if they knew there was a gun where the bullets would be flying in the other direction, they probably wouldn't have got  in, OK? But let's assume they did.
The carnage would not have been what the carnage was. We have to protect our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to kill our second amendment.  She wants to kill it.  So here's our chart. And I was thinking about doing a -- I bring -- every once in a -- like, one in ten I do it, you know a lot of these. I love the people. We have such a movement going on. Who likes the snake? Do you know the snake? Do you like it? Who likes the snake? Here we are with this. We know bad things are going to happen. We know as we allow more and more people to come in from these terror areas, bad things are going to happen. Has anybody heard the snake? Not that many? Should I do it again? So think of this, folks, think of this, think of it. This is what is going on in our country with our borders. And by the way, we're going to have a strong border, we're going to have a wall, it's going to be a powerful wall that Mexico's going to pay for the wall.  And we have no choice, and we have no choice. But think of this. This is now a situation where this was written by Al Wilson many years ago and I read it and I said you know that really pertains to what's happening to the United States and it has to do with being fooled, it has to do with a lot of different things but when you're listening to this, think of our border, think of the people that we're letting in by the thousands and Hillary Clinton, you saw those numbers right? With the chart, it's through the roof. Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more coming into our country. How stupid are we? So, are you ready, you ready, you like it, you sure? On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender hearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake, his pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you. Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake, take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up, all cozy, in a curvature of silk. Then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in, had been revived. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly would have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. I saved you, I saved you, I saved you, cried that woman. And you've bit me, heaven's why. You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. 
Get ready folks, get ready. We're led by stupid people. We're led by leaders and you know honestly, I didn't need this. This I didn't need. I had a nice life, built a great company -- a great company, some of the great real estate assets of the world. I may never see them. You know if I win, I may never see them again, and I love them -- all over the world. But you know what? This is so important. And I watched what was happening with the Iran deal, and I watched what was happening with jobs, and I watched what was happening with trade where China makes $500 billion in trade deficits with us. I look and I saw. Take a look at Mexico. You know, the politicians say, you'll never, ever be able to get Mexico to allow you to build a wall. I say trust me. Now, they don't say that anymore. Now they say, they won't put the money up to build a wall. So easy. Mexico -- our trade deficit is massive, massive. They make a fortune off the stupidity of the United Stated. Mexico will 100 percent -- you hear -- 100 percent pay for the wall, 100 percent.  OK? One hundred percent. But the story of the snake is what's happening to our country. We're letting people in. Many of these people hate us. Many of these people don't have good thoughts. And you see what one person can do -- one sick wacko can do in Orlando. And then you see his father sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big smile on his face -- with a big, fat smile on his face, right? And he was wearing a red hat, and I said, I hope that's not one of my hats. It wasn't. I was concerned. I saw that hat. I said, I hope it doesn't say make America great again. Bad guy -- bad guy. Horrendous son -- horrendous son. So here's the story, folks. We have to win -- we have to win Pennsylvania, so important. So...  Hillary Clinton is run by people that do this very professionally. They're very good. They keep her out of the spotlight. She doesn't talk to reporters -- very rarely. She doesn't do press conferences. She doesn't expose whatever's going on up here. She doesn't -- which isn't good. She doesn't expose her mind to questions. And what they want to do is they want to try and fake it through. We need strength. We need toughness. We need a strong temperament. We need a strong tone. At the same time -- at the same time, let me tell you -- at the same time, we need real, big, beautiful heart because we have to straighten out healthcare. Obamacare's going to be repealed and replaced. It's going to repay -- did you see -- did you see what's happening with Obamacare ? Did you see where the numbers are going up 30, 40, and 50 percent? Wait until you see what happens on November 1st. Now, on November 1st, they're trying to delay it. But you're going to get increases, the likes of which probably no country, nobody has ever seen. OK? Anybody in the history of healthcare -- in Texas, through going through Blue Cross Blue Shield, they just had almost a 50 percent increase in their premiums. And the deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by one of those General Electric locomotives and you live for like a long time prior to death, you'll never, ever be able to use your healthcare -- the healthcare. Because here's what's happened -- here's what's happened. The deductible is so high, you never get to use it. So, you're spending money, your  raises by 17, 18, 19 percent. But now, it's going to go really bad, really bad. It's going to die of its own volition, but we have to kill it first. It's killing our country, it's killing our jobs -- it's killing our jobs. So, here's the story, folks -- folks. We have to win Pennsylvania. We have to beat this professional group of people that are running her for her own -- for their own purposes. We have to win Pennsylvania. We win Pennsylvania, we're going to win it. You know, we're up in Florida. We're doing well in Ohio. And I'm hearing we're doing well here. We'll find out. Here's the story...  Here's the story. We have to win the state of Pennsylvania. I went to school here. My kids went to school here. We're going to win Pennsylvania.
If we win Pennsylvania, I'll tell you what. We are very much on our way. You know, the Republicans do have a tougher path, just so you -- not my fault. Not my fault. It's a tougher path. For the presidency, it's just a tougher, winding road. But if win Pennsylvania, we win Florida where we're doing really well, I think we can win Ohio, it'll be over. It'll be over. It'll be over.  So, on November 8th, you have to get out and vote or do some balloting, and I don't care -- look, here's the story. If you're not feeling well, if you're so sick, if you go to your doctor and he goes, I'm sorry sir, but you've only got a few weeks left. And it's November 1st. And he gives you the ultimate word, not looking good. You haven't got long left. I don't care and nobody else in this room cares. You have to on November 8th get out of bed and get out and vote, right? Get out and vote.  Now, in a lot of cases, you can do your early ballots too. All I'm telling you though -- look, folks. I'm just saying your jobs have been taken. Your military and all of the other things, we're going to save your Second Amendment, which is protection, we're going to get of Common Core , you're going to bring your education locally.  All things -- I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare. All these things. We're going to take care of our vets. But here's the story, folks. For you people in particular because you have been devastated. Supreme Court, he said. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Who did that? Who said that? Thank you. By the way, and I have to just stop for a second. Look, Supreme Court Justice Scalia great. Was supposed to live for a long time. He died. So you have already an empty. This next president could have the most Supreme Court nominations of any president. Could take more justices than -- it could be up to five. Probably going to be three, could be four, could be five. OK? If Hillary Clinton gets to put hard-leaning left judges on the Supreme Court, number one, your Second Amendment will be gone. Our country will never ever be the same. We will have problems like we've never had before and you won't have -- you will have a whole different deal going, which we don't want, believe me. So, here's the story. If for no other reason, I am going to put -- and you know, I've picked through Federalist society  -- we picked 11 Supreme Court justices. We're going to add probably four more, all vetted through Federalists, through Heritage, highly -- I actually got very good marks. We're going to pick these people or people very like that. So, here's the story, here's the story. You ready? We don't win anymore, you people don't win, that's for sure. You just have to look at the statistics for jobs. We're going to start winning again. We're going to win so much that you're going to get sick and tired of winning. You're going to say Mr. President -- you're going to send the congressman to see me in Washington. He's going to say, Mr. President, we have to do something. The people of Pennsylvania, and in particular our friends in Erie, they're sick and tired of winning. They can't stand winning so much. Mr. President, we just don't want to win that much. We really want to give other nations like it used to be, where it's good for them and bad for us, at least a little bit. And I'm going to say -- I'm going to say, Mr. Congressman, I don't think you know your people very well, they want to win. And we want to win. And you want to win. And we're going to win. We're going to win so much. We're going to win with our military, we're going to knock the hell out of ISIS.  We're going to win for our vets. We're going to take of our vets. We're going to win at the border, we're going to build a wall, we're going to have Mexico pay, believe me 100 percent. We're going to win with education. We're going to win for our Second Amendment. We're going to win on all of the things we discussed. We're going to win again and you're going to be proud of your country again. We're not going to be the people that are laughed at all over the world for not knowing what we're doing, for allowing others to come in and just strip us of what we have. We are going to win. We are going to be America first. We are going to make America great again. And it's going to happen quickly. Thank you everybody, thank you. 

Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. It's great to be with you this afternoon. And today we begin a conversation about how to make America safe again. In the 20th century the United States has defeated fascism, Nazism and communism. Now a different threat challenges our world. Radical Islamic terrorism. This summer there's been an ISIS attack launched outside the war zones of the Middle East - hard to believe --- every 84 hours. Here in America we have seen one brutal attack after another. Thirteen were murdered and 38 wounded in the assault on Fort Hood. The Boston Marathon bombing wounded and maimed 264 people, and ultimately left five dead, including two of our great police officers. In Chattanooga, Tennessee, five unarmed Marines  - unbelievable people, by the way - were shot and killed in a military recruiting center. Last December, 14 innocent Americans were gunned down at an office party in San Bernardino. Another 22 were very gravely injured. In June 49 Americans were executed at the Pulse night club in Orlando. Another 53 were badly injured. It was the worst mass shooting in our history and the attack by far the worst on the LGBTQ community. And I'll tell you what. We can never, ever allow this to happen again.  In Europe - thank you - in Europe we have seen the same carnage and bloodshed afflicted upon our closest allies. In January of 2015 a French satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, was attacked for publishing cartoons of the prophet Mohammed. Twelve were killed, including two police officers, and 11 were wounded. Two days later, four were murdered in a Jewish delicatessen. In November of 2015 terrorist went on a shooting rampage in Paris that slaughtered 130 people, and wounded another 368 people, some in very, very, very bad shape today.
France is suffering gravely. And the tourism industry is being massively affected in the most negative way. In March of this year terrorists detonated a bomb in Brussels airport killing 32 and injuring 340 people. This July in the South of France an Islamic terrorist turned his truck into an instrument of mass murder, plowing down and killing 85 men, women and children and wounding 308 people. Terrible. Among the dead were two Americans, a Texas father and his 11-year-old son. A few weeks ago in Germany a refugee armed with an axe wounded 5 people in a gruesome train attack. Only days ago an ISIS killer invaded a Christian Church in Normandy, France forced an 85-year-old priest to his knees. A priest who was beloved, who was beloved; before cutting his throat and just unthinkable other things. Overseas ISIS has carried out an absolute atrocity and one after another. Children slaughtered, girls sold into slavery, men and women burned alive, crucifixions, beheadings, and drownings, ethnic minorities targeted for mass execution. Holy sites desecrated. Christians driven from their homes and hunted for extermination. ISIS rounding up what it calls 'Nation of the Cross', 'Nation of the Cross' in a campaign of absolute and total genocide. We cannot let this evil continue.  Thank you. Thank you. Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam, it's oppression of women, gays, children and non-believers be allowed to reside or spread within our own countries.  We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism just as we have defeated every threat we've faced at every age and before. But we will not, we will not, remember this, defeat it with closed eyes or silenced voices. We have a president that doesn't want to say the words. Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.  Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.  The rise of ISIS is the direct result of policy decisions made by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton. Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009 before the Obama-Clinton administration took over. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Egypt was ruled by a secular president and an ally of the United States. Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions. Fast forward to today. What we have - and think of this - and the decisions made by the Obama/Clinton group have been absolutely disastrous. Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other really brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States. In Egypt, terrorists have gained a foothold in the Sinai desert near the Suez Canal, one of the most essential waterways of the world. Iraq is in chaos. And ISIS is on the loose. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West. In 2014, ISIS was operating in seven nations. They were in seven nations. Terrible, but that's what it was. Today they're fully operational in 18 countries with aspiring branches in six more for a total of 24. And many believe that number is actually 28 to 30 countries. They don't even know. The situation is likely worse than the public has any idea. A new congressional report reveals that the Administration has downplayed the growth of ISIS with 40 percent of analysts saying they had experience efforts to manipulate their findings in trying to make it look much better than it is. It's bad. At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and to the United States. Iran, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is not flush with $150 billion in cash released by the United States. Plus if you remember from two weeks ago, another $400 million in actual cash that was obviously used for ransom. Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. In short, the Obama/Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East, and put the nation of Iran, which chants, "death to America", in a dominant position of regional power and in fact aspiring a dominant world power. It all began in 2009 with what has become known as President Obama's global apology tour. We all remember. We all remember.  In a series of speeches, President Obama described America as arrogant, dismissive, derisive, and a colonial power. He was describing us.
He informed other countries that he would be speaking up about America's past errors. He pledged that we would no longer be a senior partner that sought to dictate our terms. He lectured CIA officers of the need to acknowledge their mistakes, and described Guantanamo Bay as a rallying cry for our enemies. Perhaps no speech was more misguided than President Obama's speech to the Muslim world, delivered in Cairo, Egypt, 2009. I remember it well. In winning the Cold War, President Ronald Reagan repeatedly touted the superiority of freedom over communism and called the USSR the Evil Empire. Yet when President Obama delivered his address in Cairo, no such moral courage could be found or would be found. Instead of condemning the oppression of women and gays in many Muslim nations, and the systematic violations of human rights, or the financing of global terrorism, President Obama tried to draw an equivalency between our human rights record - and remember this, our human rights - and theirs. The records are unbelievable and unmistakable. His naive words were followed by even more naive actions. The failure to establish a new status of forces agreement in Iraq and the election-driven timetable for withdrawal surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of ISIS without question.  The failures in Iraq were compounded by Hillary Clinton's disaster, total disaster, in Libya. President Obama has since said that he regrets, and really regrets, Libya and the mistake he made. He considers it his worst mistake. According to then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the invasion of Libya was nearly a split decision, but Hillary Clinton's forceful advocacy for the intervention was the deciding factor. That's why we went in. With one episode of bad judgment after another, Hillary Clinton's policies launched ISIS onto the world stage. Yet, as she threw the Middle East into violent turmoil, things turned out really to be not so hot for our world and our country. The Middle East in particular. The Clintons made almost $60,000 in gross income while she was secretary of state. It is unbelievable. Incident after incident proves again and again Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment - as said by Bernie Sanders - stability and temperament and the moral character to lead our nation.  Importantly, she also lacks the mental and physical stamina to take on ISIS and all of the many adversaries we face. Not only in terrorism, but in trade and every other challenge we must confront to turn our great country around.  It is now time for a new approach. Our current strategy of nation-building and regime-change is a proven, absolute failure. We have created the vacuums that allow terrorism to grow and thrive. I was an opponent of the Iraq War from the beginning. A major difference between me and my opponent. Though I was a private citizen whose personal opinions on such matters were really not sought, I nonetheless publicly expressed my private doubts about the invasion. I was against, believe me. Three months before the invasion I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto to whom I offer my best wishes for a speedy recovery, that "perhaps we shouldn't be doing it yet. And that the economy is a much bigger problem." In August of 2004, very early, right after the conflict, I made a detailed statement to "Esquire" magazine in an interview. Here's the quote in full. "Look at the war in Iraq and the mess we're in. I would never have handled it that way." This was right after the invasion. "Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to go and step up and lead the country?" Come on. I then continued, "Two minutes after we leave there's going to be a revolution and the meanest, toughest, smartest most viscous guy, in this case, guy, will take over. And he'll have weapons of mass destruction which Saddam Hussein did not have. What was the purpose of this whole thing? Hundreds and hundreds of young people killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and no legs? Not to mention, in all fairness, the other side. The tremendous damage done. All those Iraqi kids who've been blown to pieces. And it turns out that all of the reasons for the war were blatantly wrong. All of this death and destruction for nothing." So I've been clear for a long time that we should not have gone in. But I have been just as clear in saying what a catastrophic mistake Hillary Clinton and President Obama made with the reckless way in which they pulled out. After we had made those hard fought sacrifices and gains we should have never made such a sudden withdrawal on a timetable advertised to our enemies. They said, we're moving out, here's our time, here's our date. Who would do this but an incompetent president? Al Qaeda in Iraq had been decimated. And Obama and Clinton gave it new life and allowed it to spread all across the world. By that same token President Obama and Hillary Clinton should have never attempted to build a democracy in Libya, to push for immediate regime change in Syria or to support the overthrow of Mubarak in Egypt. One more point on this. I have long said that we should have kept the oil in Iraq.  I said it over and over and over again. Another area where my judgment has been proven correct. I just said it so many times, virtually every time I was interviewed, keep the oil, keep the oil. According to CNN, ISIS made as much as $500,000 in oil sales in 2014 alone. That's before they really got started. Fueling and funding its reign of terror. If we had controlled the oil like I said we should, we could have prevented the rise of ISIS in Iraq, both by cutting off a major source of funding and through the presence of U.S. forces necessary to safeguard the oil and vital infrastructure products necessary for us to have the oil. I was saying this constantly and consistently to whomever would listen. I said, "Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Don't let somebody else get it."  If they had listened to me then we would have had the economic benefits of the oil which I wanted to use to help take care of the wounded soldiers and families of those who died in the war.  In addition to which thousands of lives would have been saved. This proposal by its very nature would have left soldiers in place of our assets. We would have had soldiers there guarding this valuable supply of oil. In the old days, when we won a war, to the victor belonged the spoils.  Instead, all we got from Iraq and our ventures in the Middle East, was death, destruction and tremendous financial loss. But it's time to put the mistakes of the past behind us and chart a new course.  If I become president, the era of nation-building will be brought to a very swift and decisive end.  Thank you. Our new approach - which must be shared by both parties in America, by our allies overseas and by our friends in the Middle East - must be to halt the spread of radical Islam. All actions should be oriented around this goal and any country which shares this goal will be our ally. Very important. Some don't share this goal. We cannot always choose our friends but we can never fail to recognize our enemies.  As president, I will call for an international conference focused on this goal. We will work side by side with our friends in the Middle East, including our greatest ally Israel.  We will partner with King Abdullah of Jordan and the president of Egypt, President Sisi, and all others who recognize this ideology of death that must be extinguished.  We will also work very closely with NATO on this new mission. I had previously said that NATO was obsolete because it failed to deal adequately with terrorism. Since my comments, they have changed their policy and now have a new division focused on terror threats. Very good. Very, very good. I also believe that we could find common ground with Russia in a fight against ISIS. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that be a good thing?  They, too, have much at stake in the outcome in Syria, and have had their own battles with Islamic terrorism just as bad as ours. They have a big, big problem in Russia with ISIS. My administration will aggressively pursue joint and coalition military operations to crush and destroy ISIS. International cooperation to cut off their funding, expanded intelligence sharing, and cyber warfare to disrupt  and disable their propaganda and recruiting. Their recruiting is taking place right now, and they're setting records. It's got to be stopped.  We cannot allow the internet to be used as a recruiting tool and for other purposes by our enemy. We must shut down their access to this form of communication, and we must do it immediately - immediately.  Unlike Hilary Clinton, who has risked so many lives with her carless of handling of sensitive information, my administration will not telegram exactly military plans and what they are.  And by the way, what's happened with her 33,000 e-mails is an absolute disgrace to the United States of America.  I've often said that the great General Douglas MacArthur and the great General George Patton would be in a state of shock if they were alive today to see the way President Obama and Hillary Clinton tried to recklessly announce their every move before it happens. Like they did in Iraq, so that the enemy can prepare and adapt. Their enemy says, "Thank you." The fight will not be limited to ISIS. We will decimate Al- Qaeda. And we will seek to starve funding for Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah. So important. We can use existing U.N. Security Council resolutions to apply new and even stronger sanctions. Military, cyber and financial warfare will all be necessary to dismantle Islamic terrorism. But we must use ideological warfare as well. Very important. And they use it on us, better than we have ever even thought of using it on them. But that will change. Just as we won, just as we won the Cold War in part by exposing the evils of communism and the virtues of free markets, so too must we take on the ideology of radical Islam. While my opponent accepted millions of dollars in foundation donations from countries where being gay is an offense punishable by prison or death, my administration will speak out against the oppression of women, gays and people of different beliefs.  Our administration would be a friend to all moderate Muslim reformers in the Middle East and will amplify their voices. This includes speaking out against the horrible practice of honor killings, where women are murdered by their relatives for dressing, marrying or acting in a way that violates fundamentalist teachings. Over 1,000 Pakistani girls are estimated to be the victims of honor killings by their relatives each year. Recently a prominent Pakistani social media star was strangled to death by her brother on the charge of dishonoring the family. In his confession, the brother took pride in the murder and said, " Girls are born to stay home and follow traditions." Shockingly, this is a tradition that has reached our own shores. On such cases, and many, many cases have happened - where one involves an Iraqi immigrant who was sentenced to 34 years in jail for running over his own daughter, claiming she had been too Westernized. To defeat Islamic terrorism we must also speak our forcefully against a hateful ideology that provides the breeding ground for violence and terrorism to grow. It's a breeding ground. It's a terrible, terrible breeding ground. A new immigration policy is needed immediately and as well.  The common thread linking the major Islamic terror attacks that have recently occurred on our soil - 9/11, the Fort Hood shooting, the Boston bombing, the San Bernardino attack, the Orlando attack - is that they have involved immigrants or the children of immigrants. Clearly, new screening procedures are needed. A review by the U.S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee has identified 380 foreign-born individuals charged with terrorism or terrorism-related offenses between 9/11 and 2014, and many more since then, and this year is a record for identification. It's gotten worse, far worse. We also know that ISIS recruits refugees after their entrance into the country, as we have seen with the Somali refugee population in Minnesota. Beyond terrorism, as we have also seen in France, foreign populations have brought their anti-Semitic attitudes with them. In Cologne, Germany on New Years, we have seen the reports of sexual violence and assault far greater than anybody knows. Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large number of immigrants - extreme views about religion such death penalty -- and for those who are involved -- the death penalty is very, very common if you don't have the faith that they demand you have. A Trump administration will establish a clear principle that will govern all decisions pertaining to immigration. And we will be tough. We will be even extreme.  We should only admit into this country those who share our values and respect our people. In the Cold War, we had an ideological screening test. The time is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we face today. I call it extreme vetting. I call it extreme, extreme vetting. Our country has enough problems. We don't need more. These are problems like we have never had before.  In addition to scrape out all members of the sympathizers of terrorist groups, we must also screen out any hostile attitude towards our country or its principles, or who believed Sharia law should supplant American law.  Those who did not believe in our Constitution or who support bigotry and hatred will not be admitted for immigration into our country.  Only those who we expect to flourish in our country and to embrace a tolerant American society should be issued visas.  To put these new procedures in place, we will have to temporarily suspend immigration from some of the most dangerous and volatile regions of the world that have a history of exporting terrorism. Not for us. Not for us. 

Thank you. As soon as I take office, I will ask the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to identify a list of regions where inadequate screening cannot take place. There are many such regions. We will stop processing visas from those area until such time as it is deemed safe to resume based on new circumstances or new procedures. The size of current immigration flows are too large to perform adequate screening. We admit about 100,000 permanent immigrants from the middle east every year. Beyond that, we admit hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and visitors from the same regions. Hundreds of thousands. If we don't control the numbers, we can't perform adequate screening. There's no way it can take place. By contrast, my opponent wants to increase - which is unbelievable, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from - wants to increase the flow of Syrian refugees by 550 percent over what they are now. The United States subcommittee on Immigration estimates that Hillary Clinton's plan would mean roughly 620,000 refugees from all current refugee-sending nations in her first term, assuming no cuts to other refugee programs. So it could get worse. This would be additional to all other non-refugee immigration. Unbelievable numbers. Unbelievable numbers. The subcommittee estimates her plan would impose a lifetime cost of roughly $400 billion when you include the cost of healthcare, welfare, housing, schooling, and all other entitlement benefits that are excluded from the State Department's placement figures. Think of this. Four hundred billion dollars. In short, Hillary Clinton wants to be America's Angela Merkel and you know what a disaster this massive immigration has been to Germany and the people of Germany. Crime has risen to levels that no one thought they would ever, ever see. It is a catastrophe. We have enough problems in our country. We don't need more. Lastly, we will need to restore common sense to our security procedures. Another common feature of the past attacks that have occurred on our soil is that warning signs were totally ignored. The 9/11 hijackers had fraud all over their visa applications. Almost every one of them. It said, practically, in big bold letters, fraud and nobody saw it. The Russians warned us about the Boston bombers here on political asylum and the attackers were even twice interviewed by the FBI. Very sad. The female San Bernardino shooter, on her - her statements and everything that she said, she was here on a fiance visa, which most people have never even heard of, from Saudi Arabia and she wanted to support very openly Jihad online. These are the people we're taking in. A neighbor saw suspicious behavior. Bombs on the floor and other things, but didn't warn authorities because they said they didn't want to be accused of racial profiling. Now, many are dead and many more are gravely wounded. The shooter in Orlando reportedly celebrated in his classroom after 9/11. He too was interviewed by the FBI. His father, a native of Afghanistan, supported the oppressive Taliban regime and expressed anti-American views very strongly. And by the way, was just seen sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big fat smile on his face all the way through her speech. He obviously liked what she had to say. It's called weakness. Weakness. It's called stupidity. And we've had it.  The Fort Hood shooter delivered a presentation to a room full of mental health experts before the attacks in which he threw out one red flag after another. He even proclaimed that we love death more than you love life. Not good. These warning signs were ignored because political correctness has replaced common sense in our society. 
Thank you. That is why one of my first acts as president will be to establish a commission on radical Islam which will include reformist voices in the Muslim community who will hopefully work with us. We want to build bridges and erase divisions. The goal of the commission will be to identify and explain to the American public the core convictions and beliefs of radical Islam, to identify the warning signs of radicalization, and to expose the networks in our society that support radicalization. This commission will be used to develop new protocols for local police officers, federal investigators, and immigration screeners. And while I'm at it, we should give a hand to our great police officers and law enforcement officials. 
Thank you. We will also keep open Guantanamo Bay, and place a renewed emphasis on human intelligence. Drone strikes will remain part of our strategy, but we will also seek to capture high value targets to gain needed information to dismantle their organizations. Foreign combatants will be tried in military commissions. Finally, we will pursue aggressive criminal or immigration charges against anyone who lends material support to terrorism. There will be consequences for those people. There will be very serious consequences. Similar to the effort to take down the Mafia, this will be the understood mission of every federal investigator and prosecutor in the country. To accomplish a goal, you must state a mission. The support networks for radical Islam in this country will be stripped out and removed one by one, viciously if necessary. Viciously if necessary. Immigration offices will also have their powers restored. Those -- it's been taken away. Those who are guests in our country that are preaching hate will be asked to return home immediately, and if they don't do it, we will return them home.  To make America safe again, we must work together again. Our victory in the Cold War relied on a bipartisan and international consensus. That is what we must have to defeat radical Islamic terrorism. But just like we couldn't defeat communism without acknowledging that communism exists, or explaining its horrible evils, we can't defeat radical Islamic terrorism unless we do the exact same thing. We have to explain that it exists and explain the difficulties. We have to have a leader that can do that, and we don't have that now. But this also means that we have to promote the exceptional virtues of our own way of life. We have an exceptional country, and exceptional way of life. But it's being tread on by sick, sick people. And expecting that as newcomers come into our society, they will likewise have respect and do the same. Pride in our institutions, our history, and our values should be taught by parents and teachers, and impressed upon all of those who come into our society and want to join our society. Assimilation is not an act of hostility, but an expression of compassion. Our system of government and our American culture is the best in the world and will produce the best outcomes for all who adopt them. 
Thank you. This approach will not only make us safer, but bring us closer together as a country. Renewing the spirit of Americanism will help heal the divisions in our country of which there are so many. We have a divider as president. We call him the great divider. It's the thing he does best.  He will do so by emphasizing what we have in common, not what pulls us apart. This is my pledge to the American people. As your president, I will be your single greatest champion. I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally.  We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its many ugly forms, and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people. Only this way will we make America great again, and safe again, for everyone. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. 

Thank you! Thank you, everybody!  Thank you! What a group! Wow! Beautiful, thank you!  Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It's great to be here tonight.  I'm honored also to be joined this evening by Governor Scott Walker, a great gentleman and a really great governor, Chairman Reince Priebus and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.  We're at a decisive moment in this election. Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country, desperately needed jobs. Yesterday I laid out my plan to defeat radical Islamic terrorism.  Tonight I'm going to talk about how to make our communities safe again from crime and lawlessness. Let me begin by thanking law enforcement officers here in this city and across this country for their service and sacrifice in difficult, difficult, difficult times.  The violence, riots and destruction that have taken place in Milwaukee is an assault on the right of all citizens to live in security and to live in peace.  Law and order must be restored.  It must be restored for the sake of all, but most especially for the sake of those living in the affected communities, of which there are many. The main victims of these riots are law-abiding African- American citizens living in these neighborhoods. It's their job, it's their homes, it's their schools and communities which will suffer the most as a result. There's no compassion in tolerating lawless conduct for anyone.  Crime and violence is an attack on the poor and will never be accepted in a Trump administration.  The narrative has been pushed aggressively for years and now by our current administration and pushed by my opponent, Hillary Clinton, you know is a totally false one.  You know that. The problem in our poorest communities is not that there are too many police. The problem is that there are not enough police.  More law enforcement, more community engagement, more effective policing is what our country needs desperately. Just like Hillary Clinton is against the miners, she is against the police, believe me. You know it and I know it. And guess what? She knows it. Those pedaling the narrative of cops as a racist force in our society, a narrative supported with a nod by my opponent, shared directly in the responsibility for the unrest in Milwaukee and many other places within our country.  They have fostered the dangerous anti-police atmosphere in America and all throughout America. Every time we rush to judgment with false facts and narratives, whether in Ferguson or in Baltimore, and foment further unrest, we do a direct disservice to poor African- American residents who are hurt by the high crime in their community. A big, big, unfair problem. During the last 72 hours while protesters have raged against the police here in Milwaukee, another nine were killed in Chicago and another 46 were wounded. More than 2,600 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year and almost 4,000 people killed in President Obama's hometown area since his presidency began. Not too good, that's for sure.  So how are we serving these American victims by attacking law enforcement officers? The war on our police must end and it must end now. 

Thank you. The war on police is a war on all peaceful citizens who want to be able to work and live and send their kids to school in safety. Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the rioter or the robber or the looter or the violent disrupter, of which there are many. Our job is to make life more comfortable for the African-American parent who wants their kids to be able to safely -- safely -- walk the streets and walk to school, or the senior citizen waiting for a bus, or the young child walking home from school. For every one violent protester, there are a hundred moms and dads and kids on the same city block who just want to be able to sleep safely at night. They want safety.  My opponent, Hillary, would rather protect the offender than the victim, a big problem in our society. Hillary Clinton-backed policies are responsible for the problems in the inner cities today, and a vote for her is a vote for another generation of poverty, high crime and lost opportunities. I care too much about my country to let this happen. 

Thank you. The fact is we all care too much about our country to let this happen. Good policing saves lives. My wonderful friend who you just heard, Rudy Giuliani, knows a thing or two about this. He's done an amazing job. The policies put into place by Rudy ultimately brought down crime by 76 percent and murder by 84 percent in New York.  Think of how many families were saved, how much heartache was prevented when police were put into communities and criminals were automatically and systematically removed. Imagine how many lives could have been saved all across this country if Democratic politicians hadn't blocked in their cities what Rudy did in New York City. I'll make sure we deliver safe neighborhoods here in Milwaukee, and Milwaukee has got so many problems, so many problems. The world is watching right here in Milwaukee, but also across the country. It's easy for Hillary Clinton to turn a blind eye to crime when she has her own private security force that, by the way, carries guns -- Second Amendment.  I believe all Americans, not just the powerful, are entitled to security. Hillary Clinton has had her chance. She's failed at so many things, almost everything she's done. Now it's time for new leadership. The Hillary Clinton agenda hurts poor people, by far, the most. There is no compassion in allowing drug dealers, gang members and felons to prey on innocent people.  It is the first duty of government to keep the innocent safe. And when I'm president, I will fight for the safety of every American and especially those Americans who have not known safety for a very, very long time.  I'm asking for the vote of every African-American citizen struggling in our country today who wants a different and much better future.  It's time for our society to address some honest and very, very difficult terms . The Democratic Party has failed and betrayed the African-American community. Democratic crime policies, education policies and economic policies have produced only more crime, more broken homes and more poverty.  Thank you. Let us look at the situation right here in Milwaukee, a city run by Democrats for decade after decade. Last year, killings in this city increased by 69 percent, plus another 634 victims of non-fatal shootings. 18- to 29-year-olds accounted for nearly half of the homicide victims. The poverty rate here is nearly double the national average. Almost four in 10 African-American men in Milwaukee between the ages of 25 and 54 do not have a job. Nearly four in 10 single-mother households are living in poverty. Fifty-five public schools in this city have been rated as failing to meet expectations, despite $10,000 in funding per pupil, which is a very, very high number. There's only a 60 percent graduation rate, and it's one of the worst public school systems anywhere in the country. One in five manufacturing jobs has disappeared in Milwaukee since we fully opened our markets, and you understand what that means, we opened these markets to China and many African-American neighborhoods, look, they have suffered. We opened our markets, they've taken our jobs. They give us our products that we don't make anymore. And African-American neighborhoods along with many other neighborhoods have suffered greatly. To every voter in Milwaukee, to every voter living in the inner city or every forgotten stretch of our society, I'm running to offer you a much better future, a much better job...  ... at a much higher wage.

Thank you. Thank you. The Democratic Party has taken the votes of African-Americans for granted. They've just assumed they'll get your support and done nothing in return for it. They've taken advantage of the African- American citizen. It's time to give the Democrats some competition for these votes, and it's time to rebuild the inner cities of America and to reject the failed leadership of a rigged political system. And that's what it is, it's a rigged system.  I'm not part of the corrupt system. In fact, the corrupt system is trying to stop me. I've been paying my own way, tens of millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars. The voters in the Republican Party this year defied the donors, the consultants, the power brokers and chose a nominee from outside our failed and corrupt, broken system. The nominee is me.  The other party, the Democratic Party, nominated the personification of special-interest corruption. The Democratic Party rigged the nomination to give it to Hillary Clinton, thus giving the soul of their party this year to special interests. What else is new? I'm running to listen to your voice, to hear the cries for help from so many people in our nation. The quiet voices in our society, not the loudest demonstrators, need to have their demands heard.  Jobs, safety, opportunity, fair and equal representation -- we reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, which panders to and talks down to communities of color and sees them only as a votes, that's all they care about, not as individual human beings worthy of a better future. They have taken advantage.  She doesn't care at all about the hurting people of this country or the suffering she has caused them, and she meaning she and her party officials. There has been tremendous suffering because of what they have brought. The African-American community has been taken for granted for decades by the Democratic Party and look how they're doing. It's time to break with the failures of the past. I want to offer Americans a new and much better future. It's time for rule by the people, not rule for the special interests, which we have right now.  Thank you. Every insider getting rich off our broken system, and it is broken, is throwing money at Hillary Rodham Clinton.  The hedge fund managers, the Wall Street investors, the professional political class, it's the powerful protecting only the powerful. They don't care about you, believe me. Insiders fighting for insiders, but I'm fighting for you, that's what I'm doing.  When we talk about the insider, who are we talking about? It's the comfortable politicians looking out for their own interests. It's the lobbyists who know how to insert that perfect loophole into every single bill and get richer and richer and richer at your expense. It's the financial industry that knows how to regulate their competition right out of existence so there is no competition. The insiders also include the media executives, anchors and journalists in Washington, Los Angeles and New York City who are part of the same failed status quo and want nothing to change. They don't want it to change. They like it just fine the way it is now. Every day you pick up a newspaper or turn on the nightly news and you hear about some self-interest banker or some self-discredited Washington insider say they oppose Donald Trump's campaign. But you don't oppose it, that I can tell you. You don't oppose it.

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, a great honor, it's a great honor. And you have three times as many people standing outside trying to get in, so I just want to tell you thank you. Amazing.  Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose the campaign of Trump. I wear their opposition as a badge of honor...  ... because it means I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change where everybody else gets rich but you. A rigged, rigged system, remember it, I said it first, I'll probably be saying it for a long time. But eventually we're going to break that system.  I'm fighting, all of us across the country are fighting for a peaceful regime change in our country. The media/donor/political complex that's bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.  The leadership class in Washington, D.C., of which Hillary Clinton has been a member for 30 years, has abandoned the people of this country. They care about themselves, they only care about themselves. I am going to give the people their voice back.  Think about it. The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have left our border open and let innocent people suffer as a result, including vast amounts of crime, vast amounts of drugs pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and our people. The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have led us into one disastrous foreign war after another, one after another. No wins, no victory, no nothing. The people opposing our campaign are the same people who lie to us about one trade deal after another. They keep getting worse. Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense? Because that's what's happening.  Aren't you tired of big media, big businesses and big donors rigging the system to keep your voice from being heard?  Are you ready for change?  Are you ready for leadership that puts you, the American people, first together, first?  That puts our country first, America first. Remember that, America first, America first, America first.

Let's talk about what this means for the inner cities of America, a big, big problem unsolved forever. It's time to break through the television noise, the entrenched interests which are just decimating our country and our inner cities. I understand that a lot of powerful people are in our political system. A lot of people who've created our problems will lose a lot of their contracts and a lot of their money if African-American voters and all the minority voters support my campaign. That I know, that I know for sure. It's time to stop making the special interests rich. It's time to make the American people much richer than they've ever been before.  I'm going to make America wealthy again. We have to make America wealthy again if we're going to do what we want to do. We have to be smart. We have to make America wealthy again. The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city in this country for 50 years and run them into financial ruin, virtually every single one. They've ruined the schools. They've driven out the jobs. They've tolerated a level of crime no American should consider acceptable, worse than many third-world countries, so bad that people don't want to even report on it. The real numbers are beyond belief. Violent crime has risen 17 percent in America's 50 largest cities last year. Killings of police officers this year is up nearly 50 percent. Homicides are up more than 60 percent in Baltimore alone. They're up more than 50 percent in Washington, D.C. This is the future offered by the policies of Hillary Clinton and her friends: more poverty, more crime and basically just more of the same.  The future she offers is the most pessimistic thing I could possibly imagine. It's time for a different future. Here is what I'm proposing. First, on immigration. No community in this country has been hurt worse by Hillary Clinton's immigration and all of her policies than the African-American community. And she considers them a guaranteed vote. Now she is proposing to print instant work permits for millions of illegal immigrants to come in and take everybody's job, including low-income African-Americans. Not right, not going to happen.  I will secure our border, protect our workers and improve our jobs and wages in your community. We're going to improve our wages. We're going to improve our jobs. And we're not going to let companies leave our country so quickly and so easily for other lands and then take their products and sell it to us. Not going to happen.  We will only invite people to join our country who share our tolerant values, who support our Constitution and who love all of our people. They love our people, they have to love our country, or what are we doing?  On trade, I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever signed in the history of our country, perhaps the worst ever signed in the history, frankly, of the world. We're going to stand up to China, withdraw from TPP, which is another disaster, and protect every last American job. We are going to protect every last American job, which we're not doing now.  On taxes, I'm going to give a massive tax cut to every worker and small business in this country, bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs onto our shores, and make it very difficult for our businesses to leave. It will be a costly proposition for them to fire everybody and leave.  I'm going to reform our regulations so jobs stay in America and new businesses come to America to hire workers, even right here in Milwaukee.  Every policy my opponent has sends jobs outside of the country and overseas. I'm going to bring trillions in new wealth back into the United States. Our education, believe me, you look at our education, it's time to have school choice, merit pay for teachers and to end the tenure policies that hurt good teachers and reward bad teachers.  And there is no job more important than a good teacher, please remember that. There is no job more important.  We are going to put students and parents first. Hillary Clinton would rather deny opportunities to millions of young African-American children just so she can curry favor with the education bureaucracy which is very big and a lot of votes. I am going to allow charter schools to thrive and help young kids get on the American ladder of success. A good education and a good- paying job, that's what they want.  On crime, I am going to support more police in our communities, appoint the best prosecutors and judges in the country, pursue strong enforcement of federal laws, and I'm going to break up the gangs, the cartels and the criminal syndicates terrorizing our neighborhoods all over the country, and that includes Milwaukee.  To every lawbreaker hurting innocent people in this country, I say your free reign will soon come crashing to an end.  On health care, we're going to get rid of "Obamacare," repeal it and replace it.  It's caused soaring, double-digit premium increases. And we're going to give choice to patients and to consumers across our land. Aetna just today announced that they are dropping out, as are many of the major insurance companies. "Obamacare" is a disaster. It's a disaster. On government corruption, I'm going to restore honor to our government. We've seen the corruption of Hillary Clinton, the mass e- mail -- look at what's going on, folks. Look at what's going on -- the mass e-mail deletions. Have you see the 33,000 deletions? The pay-for-play at the State Department, the profiteering, the favors given to foreign corporations and governments at your expense and taxpayers' expense, and it's not acceptable any longer. It's corrupt.  We've seen a former secretary of state lie to Congress about her illegal e-mail scheme, risk innocent American lives and bring dishonor onto our government, great, great dishonor. In my administration, I'm going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. Those laws are already protected, we thought, but perhaps everybody is wrong. Perhaps all of those that have served jail time were wrong. She got special favors and nobody has ever seen anything like it in the history of our country. No one will be above the law. I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.  I am going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist, for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government. What's happening is disgraceful.  This is all just the beginning. We are going to make this a government of the people once again. This is our chance, this is it, this is it, your last chance. This is our chance to take back power from all the people who've taken it from you over so many years. The reason you see the establishment and the establishment media lining up behind my opponent is because they are scared that you with your vote can take away their power and return it to your family and to your community.  And they are scared. And they have no idea how many people on November 8th are going to come out and vote. 

Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. These are tough times, but I know we can make America greater than ever before. I have absolutely no doubt. I have gotten to know the people of this country. And I'll tell you, there are no people like the people I have gotten to know, no people.  To do this, we are going to need a fighter in the White House. I will be your fighter. Believe me, I will be your fighter.  To defeat crime and radical Islamic terrorism in our country, to win trade in our country, you need tremendous physical and mental strength and stamina. Hillary Clinton doesn't have that strength or stamina, believe me. And you know it and they know it and everybody knows it.  She cannot win for you. Most importantly, she has very, very bad judgment. Bad judgment on terrorism, bad judgment on foreign policy, bad judgment on trade. The only individuals she's ever delivered for are her donors; not the people, just the donors. I've said it before and I'll say it again. My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word pledge. Her pledge reads: I'm with her.  I choose to recite a totally different pledge. My pledge reads: I'm with you, the American people. 

I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its many ugly forms and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.  I am asking for your vote on November 8th so I can be your champion in the White House. OK? OK?  I will be your champion, I will be your voice in the White House. We will bring it back. We will once again be a country of law and order.  And we will once again be a country of great and unchallenged success.  To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight. I'm with you, I will fight for you and I will win for you.  Together, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again, greater than ever before. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 

Absolutely it is. And we're not taking it, uh, we're not taking it to them and we have to take it to them. You know, I didn't want to go into Iraq, I said, now he's a civilian, so I would say not too many people cared what I wanted to do. But that was a terrible mistake. Our terrible mistake number two was getting out the way we got out. President Obama, Hillary Clinton, the way they got out was absolutely insane. It will be talked about for many, many years and it really led to the formation of ISIS. Uh, we have problems in this country. We're letting thousands and thousands of people come into our country. We have no idea who they are, where they come from. There's no paperwork. Nobody knows what they're doing. And they're coming in by the thousands. And Hillary Clinton, it was announced recently that she wants to allow 550 percent more coming into our country from Syria, from the migration than Obama is allowing to come in.

So it's got...

Well, he actually had a speech. And it's -- it's so ... 
It's actually... 
-- it's not only true, it's sad because, I mean, how obvious can it be? You look at what's going on, World Trade Center, you look at San Bernardino, you look at so many different things. You look at Nice just recently. I have friends, they won't go to France anymore. They love France. They love the -- the city of lights, Paris. They love -- they love Paris. And I say to them, how was France this summer? Oh, we don't go there anymore. France is no longer France. And we're going to do the same thing to our country, Sean. So we can't allow it to happen and I have as big a heart as anybody. We take care of people. We'll build safe zones over in Syria. We'll do something. We have to have the Gulf states pay for it, because the Gulf states they make nothing but money...

A hundred percent.

Oh, 100 percent.

A hundred percent. A hundred percent. And we have to... 

Right. 

Well, look -- look, I said one thing right from the beginning, I wanted to get out. We should have never been there and I wanted to get out and I've been -- I've been against it ever since. I mean you can look back to 2004, 2003, uh, in fact, on Neil Cavuto's show, before the war started, I said, let's not do it. We have other things we have to do, including fix our economy, which was a mess, OK, to put it mildly. But the way we got out was ridiculous. But I've been saying something ever since I've known you, keep the oil. Have I said that?

Keep the oil. 
Keep the oil. And...
We went through -- and I said, when we went in, you know, in the old days, to the victor belonged the spoils. We -- if we -- I don't call it a victory, it's no victory. But certainly militarily, we wiped them out. But I said keep the oil and take the money and some of it give to the families of the soldiers who died. Give it to the Wounded Warriors. Give to the people that have been hurt so badly in that war. 
And -- and it... 
-- it -- it would be -- by the way, that would be such a small part of the money and the rest we used to pay ourselves... 

Right. So...

-- it's -- what I'm saying is keep the oil. Now, if they would have done that, there would be no ISIS. I said keep the oil. And I -- I think most of the audience has heard me say 200 times, I mean every time practically somebody or so . So I wanted to get out, but I wanted to keep the oil. So by nature, that means you're staying in because you're going to have to guard the oil, etc. Etc. But that oil is very prized oil, believe me. We have the same problem in Libya right now. We did the stupid attacks on Libya and we got nothing out of it and ISIS has taken over the oil and it's some of the finest oil in the world.

So when I was young and went to school, I had always heard we never lost, this country, we never lost a war, you know, World War I, World War II, we -- we just didn't lose wars. And since then, I mean when you think of it, you look at Vietnam, you look at this mess that we're in right now, all of the money spent on this. I mean it's so sad. Trillions of dollars. I used to say $2 trillion in Iraq. But that was years ago. I mean I've been saying that for so long. Nobody even knows what it is. In the meantime, our country is going to hell. Our infrastructure is terrible. Our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals, they're -- we're like a Third World -- we're becoming like a Third World country. We're spending our money over there. With all of that being said, you have an enemy that wants to do serious harm to us, OK, beyond what anyone has ever seen. This is like medieval times.

I -- I chose not to, but, you know, I -- we all understood what took place and these were great young people. And not only our people, they're doing it to their own people. They're doing it to Christians. If you're a Christian in the Middle East and they have you, it's very likely that's going to happen. The point is, they want to do serious harm. We have to take them out. We have to take them out very, very swiftly and viciously if necessary.  

Generals have... 

Right. General Flynn and other of the generals, these are great people. And I ask them all the time, if you were given your head , because right now, they're fighting a politically correct war. If you were given your head, just you go and you've got to get them out, how long would it take? I'll tell you what, they are... 
-- they are telling me they could do the job very, very rapidly. Now, very rapidly is longer than you would like, but they could get the job done and get it done with precision and get it done. Uh, we have no choice, Sean. We have no choice. We have to take them out.

Well, we're just allowing people into our country that some are going to be a problem. And we have enough problems in our country right now and you people are really proof positive. What you've gone through, it's unimaginable. I watched the Boston bombing so many times on television, how somebody can do that, how they got them on tape. It was genius police work, how they got them to start off with, but, you know, how they caught him. But when you walk -- you see them walking along like they haven't got a problem in the world. And they're looking to do mass destruction. And when I see that, I want to do something about it. I want to do something about it. 

Sure.

Sure.

True.

True.

Wow! 
Wow!

Right. And there will be more. Look, we can be nice about it. We can say it's never going to happen again. There will be more. And what we're doing by allowing thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of people in here that we just don't know anything about, it's going to happen again, because there's something wrong. And until we figure it out, we have to stop it. And that was really a large part of the speech that I just -- I just ...

Right.

Well, you don't want to do that and...

-- and if they knew about it, that would be one thing. And I assume they knew about it big league. But certainly they know about it now, so maybe they can give the money back. I've -- I've actually called... 
-- I've actually called...

And you know what? Let's give them the benefit of the doubt. They certainly knew about ...

And but do you know what -- you know what... 

They should give the money back. And I've been saying this for a long time. They should give the money back. 

Well, you know, look, uh, there's a whole big phony deal going on. And I have to say, when we were talking about Benghazi, uh, the end, I don't know if everybody remembers it. I remember it. At 3:00 in the morning, essentially, who do you want to be at that phone at 3:00 in the morning? We have some people... 
-- we have some people... 
-- oh, I'll be -- hey, I'll be up, I will tell you that. 
She was... 
-- not too effective. 

-- you know, the amazing thing, because that was a big ad and everybody made a big deal and she said she'd be there at 3:00. She wasn't there. But...

But -- but she had a certain friend... 
-- that was contacting her routinely all day and all week and all the time, routinely, and you had 600 messages trying to get through, different forms of message, and not one of those messages got through.

Well, look...

Right. Well, let me just you, you get very smart people. And there are those people. And they're very good at understanding what's going on. But beyond that, you use social media, because a lot of these people -- I mean they're better at social media than we are. ISIS, if you look at what ISIS is doing with social, they're recruiting over the Internet. And I also said we have to end that. We have to knock it out. We have to -- you know, some people would say oh, that's a terrible thing. 
We have to end that. 
But -- but, Sean, when you look at what's going on with the Internet and how ISIS is using the Internet and what they're doing and what they're doing to us and then you have people in our country that say oh, you can't do that, that's doing something so bad to us, here we are, people -- they want to blow us up. We have to be very careful. We have to take them out very swiftly, because weapons are getting stronger and stronger, meaner and meaner, and believe me, they want to come over here. Now, again, I was one that didn't want to go over there. But now you have no chance -- really, you have no choice. Now, one thing, when Obama announced when he's going out and we're going to -- all they did is they sat back. I couldn't believe it, when I was watching, I was watching this conference and he was talking about getting out and when they were getting out. I -- I'm sitting there, I can't believe that he would say it. And even Hillary Clinton, when she talks about the different things, she wants to -- why can't we just be quiet and do the job? Why can't we be quiet... 

-- and do the job?

I don't want to telegraph now...

No, I don't want to tell them.

OK. So when you look at, uh, San Bernardino, right, which was a horror show. She came in. She probably radicalized the husband. What a -- what a couple that was. That was a real beauty. 
So if they would have looked at social media, they would have seen that this woman was trouble.

We didn't look at social media. They just came in. Uh, they actually killed people that gave them a baby, uh, a baby shower -- a baby party. They had a child. They -- the 14 people that were killed, they were at the party honoring the birth of their baby and then they went in and they shot them all, killed them all. Look, there's something going on. It's a sick deal. It's beyond just normal...

Sean... 

-- this is a sick, sick deal.

I'd throw him out. If you look at him, I'd throw him out. 
You know, I looked at him. And you look, he's smiling.

He had the red cap on. I thought it was one of my caps. I said no, no. 
Make America great again, I don't think so. But he has the red cap. He's got a big smile on his face during the whole thing. He obviously liked what he heard, OK, from her. Look, we have to be so tough and so smart and so vigilant. And frankly, the Muslims have to help us, because they see what's going on in their community. We don't see it. They have to help us. 
And if they're not going to help us, they're to blame, also. 
But in -- in San Bernardino, they saw bombs laying around the apartment...

-- in the apartment. And people saw it. And they wanted to be -- they called it racial profiling. We didn't want to call in because of racial profiling. In other words, a lawyer got to them and said you've got a problem here, you knew this was there, say racial profiling. But look, we have -- whether it's racial profiling or politically correct, we'd better get smart. We are letting tens of thousands of people into our country. We don't know what the hell we're doing.

That's -- by the way, that's a little bit of a different subject, but it's all...

It's related. A little different, but it's related.

OK.

Right.

Paid for by somebody else.

Doubled it.

Doubled it.

Right. You'd take it...

In Syria.

They have plenty of land, that I can tell you. But in Syria, there's plenty of money, because you look at the Gulf states, you like at the kind of money they have, there's nobody seen money like that. And they're not doing anything.

They're not doing anything.

Paid for by somebody else.

Doubled it, he doubled it.

... in Syria. They have plenty of land, that I can tell you. But in Syria, and there's plenty of money, because you look at the Gulf states, you look at the kind of money they have. There's -- nobody has seen money like that. And they're not doing anything. They're not doing anything.

Everybody.

Everybody, right, everybody.

I really do, mostly. But, you know, a lot of times the mainstream media, they put it on like, if I'm talking about anything else, they'll put that on. She is so protected. They are so protecting her. She hasn't had a news conference in like 250 days.

Well, she is being protected by the government, definitely. I mean, how she got away with the emails is beyond anything I've ever seen in justice. But I have to say, she's being protected, and she's being protected by the media. When I say something about her, for instance, if I speak for an hour, and I talk about her for a half an hour, 45 minutes, nothing gets on television. They'll put something else on, but they won't...

Other things get on television... 

Look, let me just say, she's totally protected. I've never seen anything like it.

And she doesn't really do that much. She'll give a speech on teleprompter, and then she'll disappear. I don't know if she goes home -- she goes home and goes to sleep. I think she sleeps.

I guess she takes a lot of weekends off. She takes a lot of time off. And you know that's, frankly -- frankly, it's really not fair.

Yes, right.

You never say 100 percent, but I'm telling you pretty close 100 percent the wall gets built. We need it. You know, the Border Patrol... 
The Border Patrol agents have endorsed me, along with Sheriff Joe and everyone else. 

It gets built.

We have to rebuild, it's all depleted. The military is depleted.

One hundred percent.

It could be done faster than that. We have regulations that are absolutely destroying our energy companies.

Yes, I've already announced who the 11 could be. I have 11 people from which to pick. And I want to get as close to Scalia as I can. 

You know, Obamacare is dying of its own volition, if you look at the  of Obamacare. You saw what happened with Aetna today. It's really... 

One hundred percent, I'm telling you too. 

Thank you.  Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you and it's great to be in Charlotte.  I just met with our many amazing employees right up the road at my property. I will tell you, they like me very much. I guess I pay them a little too much.  I'd like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very, very special to me. We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt, and we must all work together to lift each other up.  Working, building, restoring together. Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences. Through  words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this. I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours. They are very, very difficult. Thank you.  We are one country, one people, and we will have together one great fantastic future.  Together, I'd like to talk about the new American future that we are going to create as a team together. Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country. They are vanishing, and they are vanishing quickly. On Monday, I laid out my plan to defeat radical Islamic terrorism.  On Tuesday, in Wisconsin, I talked about how we're going to restore law and order to this country. We need law and order. Without it, we have nothing.  Let me take this opportunity to extend our thanks and our gratitude to the police and law enforcement officers in this country who have sacrificed so greatly in these very difficult times. And they are difficult. The chaos and violence on our streets and the assault on law enforcement are really and truly an attack against all peaceful citizens. If I'm elected president, this chaos and violence will end, and it will end very, very quickly.  Every single citizen in our land has a right to live in safety. To be one united nations, we must protect all of our people. All of our people.  But we must also provide opportunities for all of our people. We cannot make America great again if we leave any community behind. Nearly four in 10 African-American children are living in poverty. I will not rest until children of every color in this country are fully included in the American dream.  Jobs, safety, opportunity is what we have to have and it's what we need. Fair and equal representation. This is what I promise to African-Americans, Hispanics, Americans and -- of all types, of all colors, of all religions. This is what we promise, we all promise. Everybody in this room promises this is what we have to do.  But to achieve this new American future, we must break from the failures of the past. As you know, I'm not a politician.  It's good. I've worked in business, created a great company, created lot of jobs, rebuilding neighborhoods. That's what I've done all of my adult life. I've never wanted to learn the language of the insiders and I've never been politically correct. It takes far too much time.  Truthfully, it takes far too much time and can often make it more difficult to achieve total victory. Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don't choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that.   And believe it or not, I regret it. And I do regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain. Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues. But one thing -- I can promise you this. I will always tell you the truth.  I speak the truth for all of you and for everyone in this country who doesn't have a voice, of which there are many. I speak the truth on behalf of the factory worker who lost his or her job, and that's happening more and more in our country. I speak the truth on behalf of the veteran who has been denied the medical care they need and the medical care they deserve. And so many are not making it, but they're going to make it if Trump becomes president. That, I can tell you.  They are dying on lines waiting for a doctor. We are going to take care of our veterans. I speak the truth on behalf of the family living near the border that deserves to be safe in their own country, but is instead living with no security and no protection at all. 

We will build the wall. Believe me, we will build it.  Our campaign is about representing the great majority of Americans. Republicans, Democrats, independents, conservatives and liberals who read the newspaper or turn on the television and don't hear anyone -- anyone speaking for them. All they hear are insiders fighting for other insiders. That's what they do. These are the forgotten men and women in our society, and they are angry at so much and on so many levels...  ... the poverty, the unemployment, the failing schools, the jobs moving to other countries. I'm fighting for these forgotten Americans.  Fourteen months ago, I declared my campaign for the presidency on the promise to give our government back to the people.  Every day since then, I've worked to repay the loyalty and the faith that you have put in me. Every day I think about how much is at stake for our country in the upcoming election. This isn't just the fight of my life, it's the fight of our lives together to save our country.  Thank you. I refuse to let another generation of American children be excluded from the American dream, which is what's happening. Our whole country loses when young people of limitless potential are denied the opportunity to contribute their talents because we failed to provide them the opportunities that they deserve.  Let our children be dreamers too.  Our whole country loses every time a kid doesn't graduate from high school or fails to enter the workforce or, worse still, is lost to the dreadful world of drugs and crime. And so many are, so, so many. When I look at the failing schools, the terrible trade deals, the infrastructure crumbling in our inner cities, I know all of this can be fixed and I can fix it. But I know it can be fixed very, very quickly if we know what we're doing.  In the world I come from, if something is broken, you fix it; if something isn't working, you replace it; if a product doesn't deliver, you make a change. I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence -- and that's what it is, is gross incompetence...  ... and no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens. That's why I am running: to end the decades of bitter failure and to offer the American people a new future of honesty, justice and opportunity...  ... a future where America and its people always -- and I mean always -- comes first. America first. Remember America first. America first. 

Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich? And this is a system which is getting very rich at your expense, that's what's happening. Aren't you tired of the same old lies and the same old broken promises? And Hillary Clinton has proven to be one of the greatest liars of all time.  Aren't you tired of arrogant leaders who look down on you instead of serving and protecting you? And that's what's happening. That is all about to change and it's about to change very, very soon. How about November 8th?  We are going to put the American people first again. I've traveled all across this country laying out my bold and modern agenda for change. In this journey, I will never lie to you, I will never tell you something I do not believe, I will never put anyone's interests ahead of yours...  ... and I will never ever stop fighting for you.  I have no special interests controlling me and I have no special interests. I'm spending millions and millions of dollars on my own campaign. I'm funding my campaign.  My only interest is the American people; my interest.  This country has been so good to me, I'm giving back. And that's what it's all about, giving back.  So while sometimes I can be too honest, Hillary Clinton is the exact opposite. She never tells the truth: one lie after another and getting worse with each passing day.

Thank you. The American people are still waiting for Hillary Clinton to apologize for all of the many lies she's told to them and the many times she has betrayed the American people at great danger to them.  Tell me, has Hillary ever apologized for lying about her illegal e-mail server and deleting 33,000 e-mails?

Has Hillary Clinton apologized for turning the State Department into a pay-for-play operation where favors are sold to the highest bidder, which is exactly what's happening?

Has she apologized for lying to the families who lost loved ones at Benghazi?

Has she apologized for putting Iran on a path to nuclear weapons?

Has she apologized for Iraq? For Libya, for Syria?

Has she apologized for unleashing ISIS across the world? She and Barack Obama unleashed ISIS. Whether you like it or don't like it, whether you want to hear it or don't, that's what happened.  Has Hillary Clinton apologized for the decisions she made that have led to so much death, destruction and terrorism?

Speaking of lies, we now know from the State Department, just announced, that President Obama lied about the $400 million in cash...  ... that was flown to Iran. It was flown to Iran. $400 million in cash. He denied it was for the hostages, but it was. Just came out. He said, "We don't pay ransom," but we did. He lied about the hostages, openly and blatantly, just like he lied about Obamacare.  You remember, "You can have your doctor, you can have your plan," right? "You can have your doctor, you can have your plan." Didn't work out that way. Now the administration has put every American traveling overseas, including our military personnel, at greater risk of being kidnapped. Hillary Clinton owns President Obama's Iran policy: One more reason she can never, ever be allowed to be president.  Let's talk about the economy. Here, in this beautiful and great state, so many people have suffered because of NAFTA. NAFTA. Remember NAFTA, what it's done to this country. Bill Clinton signed the deal and Hillary Clinton supported the deal. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA went into effect. Bill Clinton also put China into the World Trade Organization, another Hillary Clinton-backed disaster. Your city of Charlotte has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO, and many of these jobs were lost while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, our chief diplomat with China. She was a disaster. Totally unfit for this job. Totally unfit.  Hillary Clinton owes the state of North Carolina a very big apology. And I think you'll get that apology around the same time you'll get to see her 33,000 deleted e-mails.  In another words, you'll never see the apology. Another major issue in this campaign has been the border. Our open border has allowed drugs and crime and gangs to pour into our country and our communities. So much needless suffering, so much preventable death. I've spent time with the families of wonderful Americans whose loved ones were killed by the open borders and sanctuary cities that Hillary Clinton supports.  I've embraced crying parents who've lost their children to violence spilling across our border, parents like Laura Wilkerson and Michelle Root and Sabin Durden and my friend Jamiel Shaw, whose children were killed by illegal immigrants so needlessly. My opponent supports sanctuary cities.  But where were these sanctuaries for Kate Steinle? Where were they? Where were they?  Where was it? Where was the sanctuary for Kate? Think about it. Where was the sanctuary for the children of Laura and Michelle and Sabin and Jamiel? Where was the sanctuary for every other parent who has suffered so horribly? These moms and dads don't get a lot of consideration from our politicians. They certainly don't get apologies. They'll never even get the time of day from Hillary Clinton. She doesn't even care, I'm convinced. But they will always come first to me.  Listen closely. We will deliver justice for all of these great American families.  We will create a system of immigration that makes us all proud. Hillary Clinton's mistakes destroy innocent lives, sacrifice national security and betray the working families of this country. Please remember this: I will never put personal profit before national security. Nobody should.  I will never leave our border open to appease donors and special interests, which is what Hillary is doing. And they are being appeased.  I will never support a trade deal that kills American jobs.  I will never ever put the special interests before the national interests.  I will never put a donor before a voter, or a lobbyist before a citizen.  Instead, I will be a champion for the people. The establishment media doesn't cover what really matters in this country or what's really going on in people's lives. They will take words of mine out of context and spend a week obsessing over every single syllable and then pretend to discover some hidden meaning in what I said.  Just imagine for a second if the media spent this energy holding the politicians accountable who got innocent Americans like Kate Steinle killed. She was gunned down by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times. Just imagine if the media spent time -- and lots of time -- investigating the poverty and joblessness of the inner cities. Just think about how much different things would be if the media in this country sent their cameras to our border, to our closing factories, or to our failing schools...  ... or if the media focused on what dark secrets must be hidden in the 33,000 e-mails that Hillary Clinton illegally deleted.

Thank you. Instead every story is told from the perspective of the insider. It's the narrative of the people who rig the system, never the voice of the people it's been rigged against, believe me. So many people suffering for so long in silence. No cameras, no coverage, no outrage from the media class that seems to get outraged over just about everything else. So again, it's not about me. It's never been about me. It's been about all the people in this country who don't have a voice. I am running to be your voice. 

Thank you. I am running to be the voice for every forgotten part of this country that has been waiting and hoping for a better future.  I am glad that I make the powerful -- and I mean very powerful -- a little uncomfortable now and again, including some of the powerful people, frankly, in my own party.  Because it means that I'm fighting for real change -- real change.  There's a reason hedge fund managers, the financial lobbyists, the Wall Street investors are throwing their money all over Hillary Clinton: because they know she will make sure the system stays rigged in their favor. It's the powerful protecting the powerful, the insiders fighting for the insiders. I am fighting for you.  Here is the change I propose. On terrorism, we are going to end the era of nation-building and instead focus on destroying, destroying, destroying ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.  We will use military, cyber and financial warfare, and work with any partner in the world and the Middle East that shares our goal of defeating terrorism. I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our citizens: We will find you, we will destroy you, and we will absolutely win, and we will win soon.  On immigration, we will temporarily suspend immigration from anyplace where adequate screening cannot be performed. Extreme vetting.  Remember, extreme vetting. All applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology, and we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people. 

Anyone who believes Sharia law supplants American law will not be given an immigrant visa.  If you want to join our society, then you must embrace our society, our values and our tolerant way of life.  Those who believe in oppressing women, gays, Hispanics, African- Americans and people of different faiths are not welcome to join our great country.  We will promote our American values, our American way of life and our American system of government, which are all -- all -- the best in the world.  My opponent, on the other hand, wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees, even more than already pouring into our country under President Obama.  Her plan would bring in roughly 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending nations in her first term alone, on top of all other immigration. Think of that. Think of that. What are we doing? Hillary Clinton is running to be America's Angela Merkel...  ... and we've seen how much crime and how many problems that's caused the German people and Germany. We have enough problems already. We do not need more. On crime, we're going to add more police, more investigators and appoint the best judges and prosecutors in the world.  We will pursue strong enforcement of federal laws. The gangs and cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people will be stripped apart one by one, and they'll be sent out of our country quickly.  Their day is over and it's going to end very, very fast. Our trade...  Thank you. On trade, we're going to renegotiate NAFTA to make it better. And if they don't agree, we will withdraw.

And likewise, we're going to withdraw from the Trans- Pacific Partnership, another disaster.  Stand up to China on our terrible trade agreements and protect every last American job. Hillary Clinton has supported all of the major trade deals that have stripped this country of its jobs and its wealth. We owe $20 trillion. On taxes, we are going to massively cut tax rates for workers and small businesses creating millions of new good paying jobs.  We're going to get rid of regulations that send jobs overseas and we are going to make it easier for young Americans to get the credit they need to start a small business and pursue their dream.  On education, so important, we are going to give students choice and allow charter schools to thrive. We are going to end tenure policies that reward bad teachers and hurt our great, good teachers. My opponent wants to deny students' choice and opportunity all to get a little bit more money from the education bureaucracy. She doesn't care how many young dreams are dashed or destroyed and they're destroyed. Young people are destroyed before they even start. We are going to work closely with African American parents and children. We are going to work with the parent students. We are going to work with everybody in the African American community. In the inner cities, and what a big difference that is going to make. It's one of the things I most look forward to doing.  This means a lot to me and it's going to be a top priority in a Trump administration. On health care, we are going to repeal and replace the disaster called Obamacare.  Countless Americans have been forced into part-time jobs, premiums are about to jump by double digits yet again, and just this week, Aetna announced it is pulling out of the exchanges all over but also in North Carolina. We are going to replace this disaster with reforms that give you choice and freedom and control in health care at a much, much lower cost. You'll have much better health care at a much lower cost and it will happen quickly.  On political corruption, we are going to restore honor to our government. In my administration, I'm going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information.  No one will be above the law. I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.  I'm going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office or from any entity tied to a foreign government.  Finally, we are going to bring our country together. It is so divided. We are going to bring it together. We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. We're going to reject bigotry. And I will tell you, the bigotry of Hillary Clinton is amazing. She sees communities of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future -- it's only votes.  It is only votes that she sees. And she does nothing about it. She's been there forever, and look at where you are. If African American voters give Donald Trump a chance by giving me their vote, the result for them will be amazing.  Look how badly things are going under decades of Democratic leadership. Look at the schools. Look at the poverty. Look at the 58 percent of young African Americans not working -- 58 percent. It is time for a change.

What do you have to lose by trying something new? I will fix it.  Watch, I will fix it. You have nothing to lose -- nothing to lose.  It is so bad. The inner cities are so bad, you have nothing to lose. They have been playing with you for 60, 70, 80 years -- many, many decades. You have nothing to lose. I will do a great job.

This means so much to me. And I will work as hard as I can to bring new opportunity to places in our country which have known it in a very, very long time. Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party have taken African American votes totally for granted because the votes have been automatically there for them, there has been no reason for Democrats to produce. And they haven't, they haven't produced in decades and decades. It's time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last American child in this country to have a better and a much, much brighter future.  In my administration every American will be treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry, and hatred, and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.  This is the change I am promising to all of you, an honest government, a great economy, and a just society for each and every American.  But we can never, ever fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place -- can't do it.

72 percent of voters say our country is on the wrong track. I am the change candidate. Hillary Clinton is for the failed status quo to protect her special interests, her donors, her lobbyists, and others. It is time to vote for a new American future. Together we will make America strong again.  We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again

Friends and fellow citizens, come November we will make America great again -- greater than ever before.  Thank you, thank you, and God bless you. Thank you.  Thank you very much.

Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. What a crowd. Wow, look at that. Boy. What a crowd.  Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. We just set a record in this building, folks, so that's good news. That's fantastic. Thank you.  I love Michigan, and I must tell you, come November, to be specific, November 8th, with your help, we are going to win and we are going to win big.  And wish going to the White House and we are going to bring jobs back to our country and we are going to bring jobs back to Michigan.  It's going to be a victory for the people, a victory for the wage-earner, the factory worker. Remember this, a big, big victory for the factory worker. They haven't had those victories for a long time. A victory for every citizen and for all of the people whose voices have not been heard for many, many years. They're going to be heard again.  It'll be a win for the voters, not for the pundits, not for the journalists, not for the lobbyists, not for the global special interests funding my opponent's campaign.  It's going to be your victory.  These are hard times for many in this country. I just got back from a tour of the suffering and devastation in Louisiana. Perhaps you can tell by the way I'm dressed. Just got off the plane. It was actually incredible. The spirit of the people is incredible. The devastation, likewise, they've never seen anything like it, but the spirit of the people is incredible. And honestly, Obama ought to get off the golf course and get down there.  We mourn for the lives lost and we pledge our help, comfort and support to every last person in need. To the people of Louisiana, we are with you and we will always be with you.  In my vision, I saw not only the suffering of our people but also their strength, courage and really unbeatable spirit. Their spirit will overcome. We have a lot to overcome in our country, especially the fact that our jobs are being taken away from us and going to other lands, and we're not going to allow it to happen, and especially it's happening right here in Michigan.  It's an amazing spirit that we will need to rebuild our country. It's that strength that we're going to need to create the new American future our children so much deserve.  In this new -- thank you. Thank you very much. In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the work force. And if I'm not elected president, that will never happen, believe me. They're talking to you, they're playing you, but believe me, you know the answer. And I have to say that I've been talking about Michigan and the car industry and how your businesses and plants have been ripped out of your land, and I have been doing it for four years to the people of Michigan. Other people started talking about it last week. They're not going to do anything about it. Crumbling roads, bridges and airports we will replaced with the infrastructure our country needs and deserves.  Families strapped in welfare will be provided with jobs and opportunity. Children stuck in failing government schools will be able to attend the school of their choice.  Government will become lean, effective, responsible and honest.  Our boarder will be protected and our children will be safe, very, very safe.  And we will build the wall, don't worry about it. We will build the wall. 

Law and order will be restored and the poorest places in our country will know safety and peace again.  American values and cultures will be cherished - and I mean cherished and celebrated once again. But to achieve this new American future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past, and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies and over again, and over again, and over again.  No group in America has been more harmed by Hillary Clinton's policies than African-Americans no group. No group. If Hillary Clinton's goal was to inflict pain to the African-American community, she could not have done a better job. It is a disgrace.  Tonight I'm asking for the vote of every single African-American citizen in this country who wants to see a better future.  The inner cities of our country have been run by the Democratic party for more than 50 years. Their policies have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, and broken homes. It's time to hold democratic politicians accountable for what they have done to these communities. At what point do we say enough?  At what point do we say enough?  It is time to hold failed leaders accountable for their results, not just their empty words over and over again. Look at what the democratic party has done to the city -- as an example and there are many others, -- of Detroit. 40 percent of Detroit's residents, 40 percent, live in poverty. Half of all Detroit residents do not work, and cannot work, and can't get a job. Detroit tops the list of most dangerous cities in terms of violent crime, number one. This is the legacy of the democratic politicians who have run this city. This is the result of the policy agenda embraced by crooked Hillary Clinton. 

33,000 e-mails gone.  The only way to change results is to change leadership.  We can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created our problems in the first place. A new future requires brand new leadership.  Look at how much African-American communities are suffering from democratic control. To those I say the follow, what do you have to lose by trying something new like Trump? What do you have to lose? 

I say it again, what do you have to lose? Look, what do you have to lose? You live in your poverty, your schools are no good, you have no jobs, 58 percent of your youth is unemployed, what the hell do you have to lose? And at the end of four years, I guarantee you, that I will get over 95 percent of the African-American vote, I promise you; because I will produce - I will for the inner-cities and I will produce for the African-Americans. And the Democrats -- the Democrats will not produce and all they've done is taken advantage of your vote. That's they've done. And once the election's over, they go back to their palaces in Washington and, you know what, they do nothing for you, just remember it. So you have nothing to lose, one thing we know for sure is that if you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same, exactly, the same result. My administration will go to work for you as no one has ever done before - we will work. We will bring back jobs. We will work. By contrast, the one thing every item in Hillary Clinton's agenda has in common is that it takes jobs and opportunities away from African-American workers. It takes jobs away from all workers, because your companies are leaving Michigan, your companies are leaving every single state in our union. They are going to Mexico; they're going everywhere but here. Hillary Clinton supports open borders, which means many things, but it means people pour in and take your jobs, whether you like it or don't like it, they take your jobs. Her fierce opposition to school choice; you need choice. You have to get your children into good schools. You do that through competition. You need choice. Her plan to massively to raise taxes on small business and everyone, $1.3 trillion increase, whereas I am cutting taxes very substantially, for business and for the middle class. Her tremendous opposition to American energy, the opposition is fierce, and her record of giving our jobs away to many, many other countries. America must reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees communities of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. Hillary Clinton would rather provide a job to a refugee from overseas, than to give that job to unemployed African-American youth in cities like Detroit, who have become refugees in their own country. It's time to get our country back to work and that includes an all-out effort to help young African-Americans get the good paying jobs that they deserve. Hillary Clinton's plan would bring in an estimated 620,000 refugees in her first term, at a lifetime benefit cost of some $400 billion to our country, according to the Senate Immigration Subcommittee. 
Hillary Clinton wants to be America's Angela Merkel. By the way, for the price of supporting one refugee in the United States, we could support 12 in a safe zone in the Middle East, or let's say Syria. The improved refugee screening standards I have proposed will save countless billions of dollars. It's called extreme vetting. Extreme vetting.  We will invest a portion of the money saved in the jobs program for inner-city youth. The African-American community has given so much to this country. They fought and died in every war since the Revolution. They've lifted up the conscience of our nation in the long march towards civil rights. They've sacrificed so much for the national good. Yet nearly four in 10 African-American children still live in poverty and 58 percent, as I said, of young African-Americans are not working. They cannot find a job. We must do better as a country. I refuse to believe that the future must be like the past. It won't be. Our future is going to be a great future for everyone. For everyone.  In a Trump administration, all workers of all colors will get priority for jobs in their own country, which is about time. I want higher wages for African-Americans, for Hispanic Americans and for all Americans. We want higher wages.  Many, many workers in our country are making substantially less money today in real wages than they made 18 years ago. They're working two jobs instead of one. They're working much harder as they get older and it's supposed to be the opposite. We're going to stop it, we're going to create great jobs and we're going to get the wages up.  Hillary Clinton is a throw back to an ugly past where politicians preyed on our poorest citizens while selling them out for personal gain. Promises, promises, all talk, no action -- all talk, no action politicians. They talk, talk, talk, you vote them in with great fanfare, and then they do nothing. With Trump, that's not going to happen. Believe me.  We must turn the page on yesterday. Only a change in leadership will produce a change in outcomes, and we can't take, as a country, four more years of Obama. And that's what you get with Hillary Clinton but probably worse.  In this new American future, American workers will always come first. America first, always come first.  This will include a complete revitalization of the Michigan manufacturing sector. Now, you have to understand, the Michigan manufacturing sector is a disaster. It is a disaster. Look at your notes, look at your stats, look at what's happening to your state. You're losing your businesses. It's like taking candy away from a baby, and many people in this audience right now that think you have jobs, you're going to find out very soon that your company is leaving for Mexico or some other place and you're not going to have your job very long. And if Trump gets in, those days are over, folks. Those days are over.  We will be bringing back our jobs to Michigan. There will be a very big price to pay for those companies that want to leave our land, go some place else, manufacture their goods and sell them back with no retribution. It won't happen; there will be consequence.  It won't happen. It will not happen.
Michigan lost more than one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. As you know, NAFTA, one of the worst trade bills in history, maybe -- maybe the worst trade bill ever signed in the history of the world, not only in our country. It's emptied out Michigan, it emptied out New England. It emptied out New York state. It emptied out so many of our great companies, they leave and they fire. We end up with devastation. We end up with unemployment. We end up with nothing. The bill was signed by Bill Clinton.  It was supported by Hillary Clinton. Right here in this community, you have lost one in seven manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton put china into the World Trade Organization -- another Hillary Clinton backed deal. She backs all the deals and by the way, she will be backing the Transpacific Partnership, TPP.  If she is elected, just mark your words, just remember, you know it's going to happen. She considered it the gold standard. All of a sudden, when she heard me talking about it, she said, I can't win this one. So she went against it, she'll go back immediately and you saw that when the governor of Virginia, whose her friend, said that was going to happen.  Detroit lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs following the NAFTA and WTO agreements that were supported very strongly by my opponent. No industry has been hurt more by Hillary Clinton's policies than the automobile industry, or as we call it the car industry. It has been a total disaster.

According to the Bureau of the Labor of Statistics, before NAFTA went into effect, there was 285,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is down to 160,000 and it is going to be a lot lower because if you look at the massive plants being built right now in Mexico - car plants, folks -- you can kiss these jobs goodbye.  But not me. Now with me. It won't happen.  In 2014, General Motors announced plans to double it's investments in Mexico by plans by 2018. Not good.  In April 2016, Ford Motor Company announced plans to invest another $1.6 billion constructing an auto plant in Mexico. Mexico will become the car capital of the world very, very quickly. And Michigan is going to end up with lots of empty buildings all over the place unless you elect Donald Trump president.  In same month, Fiat -- Chrysler announced 1,300 layoffs. The list goes on and on. We will turn it around, we will turn it around fast. We will meet with these companies and we will say, it will not be easy for you to move your plant to Mexico - for you sell your cars through what will be a very strong border, and for you not to pay tax on those cars coming in, okay?  And when we tell them that there will be a substantial tax on the cars that they make in Mexico and other places, number one, they're not going to move in the first place, and number two, if they do, our country will make one heck of a lot of money.  But to save your jobs and do all of the things that I'm talking about, we have to win on November 8th.

The destruction that NAFTA started will be finished off if the Transpacific Partnership is approved. It will be almost -- nothing is as bad as NAFTA -- but it will be almost as bad as NAFTA. We know from Hillary's closest friend, she is planning to ram through TPP if she's elected. She called it, as I said, the gold standard. It's passage would be a disaster for Michigan, in particular, for the car industry in particular, for the people of Michigan. 
I won't let it happen.

According to the Economic Policy Institute, the United States trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost over one million manufacturing jobs in our country in 2015. By far the biggest losses occurred in motor vehicles and parks, which lost nearly 740,000 -- think of that -- 740,000 manufacturing jobs. Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of state workforce due to trade deficit with TPP members. Just imagine how many more automobile jobs will be lost if Hillary gets her wish and approves TPP. It will not be pretty. That's why I have announced that we will withdrawal from the deal before that deal can ever, ever, ever happen.  I have have previously laid out a detailed seven-point plan for trade reform, available on my website. It includes strong protections against currency manipulation from countries like China and tariffs against any nation that cheats by unfairly subsidizing their goods, of which many of them do.  My plan also includes a total renegotiation of NAFTA so our jobs can come back.  And if we can't make a much, much better deal than we have right now, we will walk.  I'm not in any way, shape or form an isolationist. I don't believe in it, but we have to make great deals for our country. We're losing in our whole trade negotiation with oil  countries over $800 billion a year. That's our trade deficit. Who negotiates these deals? We want great trade deals and we will have them.  But we want trade deals that work for America, that create jobs and wealth for our country, that work for the American worker.  We want to shrink our almost $800 billion trade deficit. We don't want to expand it, and it's been expanding for years. For years and years. You look at the charts -- up, up, up, up, up. And I say to myself so often, why don't they do something about it? And the reason is we have political hacks as our negotiators. We have politicians as our negotiators. We have politicians that are controlled like Hillary Clinton by her donors, her special interests and her lobbyists and they won't let her do what's right for our workers and for our country. We want to be leading the world in production, exports and manufacturing. We want jobs to leave from other countries and come into our country for a change.  Another major issue in this race is foreign policy. Hillary Clinton has made one bad foreign policy decision after another. Beginning with the support for going to war in Iraq, and I opposed it so strongly. Nobody cared. I was a civilian, but I opposed it. I said you will have a total destabilization of the Middle East. It was such common sense and look what happened. Her tenure as secretary of State may be regarded as the most disastrous in United States history.
But she is totally without remorse. Her failed decisions as secretary of State unleashed ISIS onto the world.  But has she ever apologized for the death and destruction she has caused? No.

Look at the world before and after she became Secretary of State. Pre-Hillary in the early 2009s, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Libya was somewhat stable. Syria was under control. The group we now know today, ISIS, was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Now, take a look at what we have. Fast forward to the present time. After Hillary, here is what it looks like. Iraq is in total chaos. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States, where we're taking in thousands and thousands and thousands of people. ISIS has been unleashed unto the entire world. Iran, the world's top state sponsor of terrorism has been put on the path to nuclear weapons, was given $400 million in ransom payment cash, where they just yesterday caught Obama in yet another lie.  Very much like -- you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan, Obamacare -- a total disaster. It will be repealed. It will be replaced.  Hillary Clinton is a legacy of death, destruction, and terrorism. America deserves a better legacy.

All of you deserve a much, much, better future.

I am the change agent. I am the change agent. 

I am your messenger. And I said it many times, I'm nothing more than your messenger. It's a message of strong defense, common sense, take care of our vets, great education, get rid of Common Core, great health care, get rid of Obamacare, save our Second Amendment.  Which is under tremendous siege right now. Hillary Clinton is the defender of the status quo or what we have. While our country lost badly under Hillary Clinton, she cashed in big time. Our country was losing. Our people were losing, but she is cashing in. Bill Clinton's speaking fees surged while Hillary was Secretary of State. He was paid almost $50 million for speeches during her tenure, an increase in 44 percent over the previous four years. By the way, things came out today that blow everything away today. Then there was all of the money funneled into the Clinton Foundation from foreign governments and corporations. It was pay for play.  Yet, Hillary Clinton, who is indifferent to the suffering she has caused, has no remorse at all. She offers no apologies. No apologies for unleashing ISIS. No apologies for her open borders. No apologies for lying about her e-mails or about Benghazi.  The only way to learn the full depth of her public corruption is to read the 33,000 e-mails that she deleted. 

And the only way to get justice in this rigged system is to show up and vote on November 8th and vote big, big, big.  And I will bring your jobs back. So are you ready to vote?

And what about your future? Is it going to be great, good, or terrible?

Great. So if you're ready to vote for honest government and the honest government that you deserve, a Trump administration will end the corruption and restore integrity to government service. Remember, I'm funding my campaign, I'm spending tremendous amounts of money on running for office. I'm raising money for the Republican Party and the Republican National Committee, which I think is doing a very good job, but I'll tell you more about that on November 8th. I'll let you know if they do a good job or if they do not such a good job. But I think they're going to do a great job. No one will be above the law in a Trump administration. The State Department will work for the country, not for Hillary Clinton's donors.  And I will work for you and I will work for no one else. I will work for you. I will never lie to you. I will never put any other interests before you and I will never, ever stop fighting for you. Never.  The government will work for the people again. That means we are only going to admit individuals into our country who support our values and we're not going to issue visas where  screening  controls take place. We are going to make sure that we have total screening, and without it, we cannot continue to have our government run like this. We will also seek to join in partnership with any nation that wishes to join us in defeating and destroying ISIS.  At home, taxes will go down, especially for -- look, I mean, it's going to go down for a lot of people, for business they're going down, businesses are going to flourish, they're going to come pouring back. But taxes will go down, especially for middle-income Americans.  And small business rates will be lowered to 15 percent so we can put millions of new jobs into our poorest neighborhoods.  As I said, Obamacare will be repealed and replaced. Voters, not special interests, will be in charge finally. We are going to bring our country together again. We have a divided country. It's totally divided. The era of division will be replaced with a future of unity, total unity. We will love each other. We will have one county. Everybody will work together.  We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. It's time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last child in this country to have the better future they deserve.  In my administration, every American will be treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.  This is the change I am promising to all of you; an honest government with low taxes, a thriving economy and a just society for each and every American. It's time to vote for a new American future.  Together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America united again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again. God bless you.  Thank you. Thank you very much, Michigan. Thank you. 

Thank you, everybody. So we began one hour early because the place is packed, so why should we wait?  Thank you. It's great to be in Ohio.  I love this state, I do, I love this state where I once worked and had great experience. And I must tell you, above all, I love the people of Ohio.  And I have a very special message for you tonight. We are going to win Ohio. We are going to win the White House.  And we are going to bring back your jobs that have been taken from your state and every other state in the union.  We're going to negotiate fair trade deals, and what I mean by fair is great, that put the American worker first.  We're going to stop the product dumping, all over the place, dumping, and we're going to stop the unfair foreign subsidies and the currency manipulation, which is a form of cheating.  We are going to stop all forms of cheating. We're going to bring our workers back. We're going to bring our country back. We're going to bring companies back into our country. They're going to hire lots of people. You're going to get great jobs again. You're going to get jobs that pay you a lot more money than you're making right now, because I know what's happened to the American worker.  The era of economic surrender, which is what we've been doing for so long, is over.  A new era of real American greatness is ready to begin if I get elected president. 

No state has been hurt worse by the Hillary Clinton trade policies than the state of Ohio. Hillary Clinton backed her husband's NAFTA, one of the worst deals made in the history of our country, maybe the worst trade deal made ever anywhere in the world. That's how bad. She backed China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. She backed the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, and she backed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which she called the gold standard. One bad deal after another. Hillary Clinton's donors own her, they own her lock, stock and barrel. They own her, and she will do whatever they tell her to do. And when they own companies and they want that company to move to Mexico, folks, your jobs are gone. OK? You don't have a chance. That's the way the system works. Ohio and the Akron area have lost nearly one-third of the manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. One-third, think of that, and getting worse. And as you stand here tonight, there are companies right now negotiating to leave. OK? You'll find out about it, but we'll stop them, just hang in there. And it won't be hard, won't be hard.  This region and this state have lost nearly one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization. Our annual trade deficit in goods with the world is now nearly $800 billion, is that's even believable, $800 billion. We have some great negotiators on our side, don't we? This subtracts directly from our growth. Our economy grew only 1.2 percent in the last quarter, that's a total disaster. That means there's no growth and it's getting worse, not better, it's getting worse. This is the legacy of Barack Hussein Obama. And Hillary Clinton will be four more years, and it will be worse, in my opinion. I am promising a new legacy for America. We are going to create a new American future. But to do that, we have to stop the Trans-Pacific Partnership. We have to.  And to do that, you're going to have to on November 8th elect Donald J. Trump as your president.  Thank you -- November 8th. Our trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs just last year. Think of it, 100,000 jobs. They're ripping them out of our country. Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved. Hillary Clinton, who called the TPP the gold standard, would approve and, by the way, 100 percent, 100 percent approval, she's going to approve it. If you remember, her closest friend, Terry McAuliffe, confirmed that that's what she's going to do with a wink and a nod. We can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. That will be, in my opinion, as bad, if that's possible, as bad as NAFTA. We will win this election and we will keep America out of TPP, among many, many other things.  We will defend our freedom, our jobs and our economic independence. It's going to be America first. It's not going to be America last, America seventh, America 5th because we want to take care of some company or take care of another country that's taking care of our politicians. I put up my money, folks. You know what? If I don't make it, I've wasted a lot of money, time and energy, that I can tell you, a lot. But I think we're going to win big. I actually think there's something going on. There's something going on.  There is something going on, whether it's here or in Pennsylvania or in Virginia or Florida. I go to the arenas, I start an hour, I start two hours early, and the places are packed with people outside. I can start early because they'll fill up hours before I'm supposed to be there. There's an enthusiasm that's going on that nobody has ever seen before. There is something going on.  My economic plan is going to grow this economy, raise your wages, which in many cases haven't gone up in real wage for over 18 years. You're making less money now. Many of the people in this room making less money now than you made 18 years ago. You're working harder and, in some cases, you have two jobs. It's not supposed to work that way, it's supposed to be the other way. You're getting older, you're working harder, you're making less. Not going to happen. We are going to create millions and millions of new jobs.  Here are a few of the things we are going to do. This you will like. A massive tax cut for working Americans and a 15 percent tax rate for small businesses.  Look at those people, they're still pouring in. I love seeing it, pouring in.  It's really -- thank you -- it's beautiful, beautiful, look.

It's really beautiful. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. See, to me that means so much. When you see that scene, look at the doors, pouring in, all filling up, unbelievable, unbelievable.  I don't know how I explain to them that we started an hour early. I don't know. Thank you, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you. We are going to eliminate regulations that kill American jobs, and that includes getting rid of the Obama administration's new anti-energy rules that will lift your energy bills up by more than 40 percent very, very shortly. These Obama-Clinton energy restrictions are a tax on the poor, and they devastate low-income, African-American and Latino Americans. It is a disaster. Ohio gets 60 percent of its electricity from coal-powered energy. Right?  Hillary Clinton says she wants to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business. Exactly, just like she wants to put the steelworkers out of business. She wants to put a lot of businesses out of business. We are going to put the miners and the steelworkers back to work. And we are going to get your energy bills down fast.  We are going to repeal and replace "Obamacare," saving another 2 million jobs over the next decade alone.  Another major part of our agenda is law and order.  More than 2,600 people have been shot in Chicago alone since the beginning of this year. This is one of the biggest differences between me and my opponent. I believe that safety is a right that belongs to all Americans -- all Americans.  And I want to take this opportunity to thank the law enforcement and police officials that are here with us tonight...  ... and all across the country, for their service and sacrifice in these very dangerous, especially for them, dangerous and difficult times. They are terrific, so thank you to law enforcement and police.  Working with citizens and police, we will bring safety to communities across this land, but especially to those and these places that have not known safety in a very, very long time. I want every parent and child in this society, including, so importantly, every African-American and Hispanic citizen, to be able to live in a safe, thriving and prosperous community. It's time.  This is the new American future that we're working all together to create. Hillary Clinton is the past. She's been there forever, she's done nothing but mistakes. She's got bad, bad judgment, mistake after mistake. We are the future.  Another major part of our agenda is immigration security. We need to protect American jobs. We need to protect American safety.  We're going to build a wall, folks. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build it, don't worry. We're going to build a wall.  That wall will go up so fast your head will spin. And you'll say, you know, he meant it. And you know what else I mean? Mexico is going to pay for the wall.  Low-income workers are hurt the most by my opponent's policies. Poor Hispanic and African-American citizens are the first to lose a job or see a pay cut when we don't control our borders. So true. According to Pew Research, immigration over the next 50 years will add another 100 million to our population. We will be much, much more and it's going to be much, much more under Hillary Clinton's radical plans. She's got a radical plan. You know where she got it? She got it probably from Bernie who took her so far left. Wait until you see what she does to the United States Supreme Court. But we're not going to give her that chance, OK? We're not going to give her that chance.  That's so unfair to the low-income workers, African-American, Latino, all Americans, living here today and trying to get a job and get ahead. Hillary Clinton's plan amounts to total and absolute total open borders. It's open borders. I've met with the families who have lost loved ones to sanctuary cities and violence spilling across our border, parents like my friend Jamiel Shaw, Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden and Laura Wilkerson. Hillary Clinton is either too corrupt or too cowardly to meet with the families of those killed by the policies she and Obama support. Hillary Clinton has totally has forgotten the first rule of public service. The job of an elected official is to serve the citizens of the United States. That's what the job is. And if you don't understand that, then you are not fit to run for the office of president of the United States.  If you are not prepared to put American workers first, then you should not hold or seek public office. We're not working for somebody else. We're not working for another country. It's just that simple. No issue better illustrates how corrupt my opponent is than her pay-for-play scandals as secretary of state. As the evidence has become public over the last several months, I have become increasingly shocked by the vast scope of Hillary Clinton's criminality. It's criminality, everybody knows it, everybody knows it. Our country has gotten so far behind, everybody knows it. Hillary Clinton said she turned over all of her work-related e-mails.

She testified that to Congress under penalty of perjury. Now we learn about another 15,000 e-mails she failed to turn over and they have just been discovered, I guess today. And don't forget, the 33,000 e-mails she's already deleted. Colin Powell just proved again how dishonest Hillary Clinton is after he busted her for trying to pin the e-mail scandal on him, one more Hillary Clinton lie. Her foundation took in large payments from major corporations and wealthy individuals, foreign and domestic, and all the while she was secretary of state. The Clinton Foundation accepted as much as $60 million from Middle Eastern countries that oppress women, gays and people of different faiths. The foundation donors included corporations and individuals with significant matters before the State Department. Not good. And then either Hillary Clinton herself or one of her closest aides took action favorable to these donors. Her actions corrupted and disgraced one of the most important departments of government, indeed one of only four established by the United States Constitution itself. The Clintons made the State Department into the same kind of pay-for-play operation as the Arkansas government was. Now, think of what happened back then. Think about it. And I love the state of Arkansas, we're winning it big, but I'll tell you, they know what went on. They know and they're not happy. Pay the Clinton Foundation huge sums of money and throw in some big speaking fees for Bill Clinton and you got to play, you got to do what you wanted to do. It's pretty sad. This is in front of the State Department. This is in front of the State Department. And long before that, you should have seen what they were doing in Arkansas. Same old story, folks. The amounts involved, the favors done and the significant number of times it was done require an expedited investigation by a special prosecutor immediately, immediately, immediately.  After the FBI and Department of Justice whitewashed Hillary Clinton's e-mail crimes, they certainly cannot be trusted to quickly or impartially investigate Hillary Clinton's new crimes which happen all the time. Some former prosecutors have even suggested that the coordination between the pay-for-play State Department and the corrupt Clinton Foundation constitute a clear example of RICO, racketeering influenced corrupt organization, enterprise. The Justice Department is required to appoint an independent Special Prosecutor because it has proven itself to be really, sadly a political arm of the White House. Nobody has ever seen anything like this before. The Department of Justice has acted very unethically, particularly the attorney general's private, lengthy, 39-minute meeting in the back of an airplane before the department's decision not to prosecute her for crimes that would have been prosecuted against any other citizen in our country. If the Justice Department fails to do so, it will make it even clearer that a second of four primary constitutional departments have been corrupted. It's as simple as that. Every major lawyer, you look, every major lawyer is saying the same thing. They can't believe it happened. They know the facts, they can't believe it happened. The Justice Department and the FBI, they cannot believe what's going on in this country. And other countries are talking about it and they can't believe what's happening either. Here's one example of Clinton corruption. As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton signed off on a deal allowing Russians to take an increased stake in a company called Uranium One, giving up control of about 20 percent of America's uranium supply to the Russians. Wonderful deal. You know what happens to uranium? You all know what happens to uranium, and they need it in Russia. Clinton's approval of the deal netted the owners of the uranium company millions and millions of dollars. In exchange for signing off on the deal, some of the former owners of Uranium One gave the Clinton Foundation millions and millions of dollars in donations. In addition, Bill Clinton received over $500,000 for a speech to a Kremlin-backed investment firm that was a beneficiary of the deal. Here is another example of pay-for-play. In 2009, a company called Ericsson came under U.S. pressure for selling telecom equipment to several oppressive governments, including Sudan, Syria and Iran. Some these regimes used those technologies to monitor and control their own people. In June 2011, Hillary Clinton's State Department began adding goods and services to a list that might be covered under expanded sanctions on Iran and other state sponsors of terrorism. During that time, Ericsson sponsored a speech by Bill Clinton, paying him $750,000, his highest-paying speech. In April 2012, the Obama administration issued an executive order imposing sanctions on telecom sales to Iran and Syria, but those sanctions did not cover Ericsson's work in Iran. A Trump administration will end the government corruption.  No one will be above the law. We will have one set of rules for everyone. In Hillary Clinton's world, we have one set of rules for her and another set of rules for everyone else. I am fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. I will be your voice, believe me.  I just get the feeling we're going to win in a landslide.  Hillary Clinton's campaign is funded by Wall Street and hedge fund managers. My campaign is powered by my money, but also by small donations from working people across this country who want their country back.  The average donation last month was about $61, so beautiful to see that. And that doesn't happen often with our Republicans, and that's OK. But I'll tell you, so glad to see it. It's a movement. Folks, it's a movement that's going on. This is a movement. This is a movement. 

Nothing terrifies the ruling class more than when everybody working, and I mean everybody and everyday working people, give $5, $10, $15 to a campaign like ours. They are very concerned. They couldn't believe when they saw the numbers. It is in fact something very, very special that's happening because it's never really happened like this, certainly for the Republican Party it's never happened like this before.  We're going to take government away from the special interests that give her tens of millions of dollars so that she can broadcast absolutely phony adds about me, and we're going to give it back to the voters. And by the way, those ads are absolutely phony with the exception of certain little parts of them. A couple of little things are correct, but we'll get over it.  Come November 8th, we are once again going to have a government that serves you and your family and your country, not the special interests, the donors and the lobbyists.  We are going to rebuild our depleted military, avoid needless foreign wars, build new friendships overseas and remember those three famous words: peace through strength.  We are going to work with our allies to crush, defeat and utterly destroy ISIS. We are going to have a new immigration screening test to keep people out of our country who don't support our tolerant values. We are going to have extreme vetting. Remember, extreme vetting. We want people in our country, but we want people that have the ability to love us and respect us.  We are also going to reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees people of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future. So true. That is so true.  The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city for 50 years, 60 years, 70 years, and even more than a hundred years. They have produced only poverty, failing schools and broken homes. In the last eight years, the African-American labor force participation has declined another 3 percentage points, and it's dropped another 6 percentage points for teenagers, and that's already from the most dismal numbers in history. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. African-American home ownership has declined nearly 10 percentage points from record levels. This is just in the last short while. Also, since 2009, another 2 million Latinos have fallen into poverty. Incomes for Latino workers fell by almost another $1,000 a year. Again, by terrible standards. Meanwhile, homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore and up all over the place, no matter where you look. The level of crime in these cities is something no American should consider acceptable. It should not be considered acceptable.  Our government has totally failed our African-American friends, our Hispanic friends, and the people of our country, period. The Democrats have failed completely in the inner cities. For those hurting the most, who have been failed and failed by their politicians, year after year, failure after failure, worse numbers after worse numbers, poverty, rejection, horrible education, no housing, no homes, no ownership, crime at levels that nobody's seen. You can go to war zones in countries that we're fighting and it's safer than living in some of our inner cities that are run by the Democrats. And I ask you this, I ask you this: Crime, all of the problems, to the African-Americans, who I employ so many, so many people, to the Hispanics, tremendous people, what the hell do you have to lose? Give me a chance. I'll straighten it out. I'll straighten it out.  What do you have to lose? And you know, I say it and I'm going to keep saying it. And some people say, wow, that makes sense, and then some people say, well, that wasn't very nice. Look, it is a disaster the way African-Americans are living, in many cases, and, in many cases, the way Hispanics are living. And I say it with such a deep-felt feeling. What do you have to lose? I will straighten it out.  I'll bring jobs back. We'll bring spirit back. We'll get rid of the crime. You'll be able to walk down the street without getting shot. Right now, you walk down the street and you get shot. Look at the statistics. We'll straighten it out. If you keep voting for the same failed politicians, you will keep getting the same results. They don't care about you, they just like you once every four years, get your vote and then they say bye-bye.  What do you have to lose? And you know what? I'll do a great job. I'll do a great job.  But most importantly, I want to talk to you about really what you have to gain. Those hurting in our country have so much to gain by joining our campaign for a new and more inclusive American future. Tax reforms will add millions of new jobs and thousands of small businesses. My energy reforms will create millions of new jobs and lower the price of your energy bills which right now are going through the roof.  My trade reforms will raise wages, grow jobs and add trillions of dollars in new wealth to our country and to our people. My immigration reforms will protect your jobs and stop businesses from exploiting visa programs that hurt poor workers and everybody else.  My infrastructure plans will rebuild your roads, your bridges, your tunnels, your airports, which are in terrible shape, the worst shape they've been in in over 50 years. My regulatory reform will make it easier for African-American small businesses to thrive and for young children to live out their dreams without crime and without being scared to walk down the street.  My promise of school choice -- you know what the word choice is, it's called competition -- my promise of the word choice, charter schools and merit pay for teachers will help low-income students in our inner cities. Teachers, one of the most important professions; no matter what you do, there is nothing so important.  We love our teachers. We love our teachers. We've got to take care of our teachers. Got to take care of our teachers. Hillary Clinton discriminates against poor African-American children by opposing school choice, for votes. She wants the votes. My government reforms will make your voice heard, not the voice of the special interests. Every insider getting rich off of our broken system is throwing money at Hillary Clinton. It's the powerful protecting the powerful. Excuse me, I used to be there, I know the system very well.  I know the system better than anybody. It's insiders fighting for insiders. But I am fighting for you. I'm fighting for you.  Every day, you turn on the nightly news, you hear about how some self-interested banker or some Washington insider says they oppose the Trump campaign. That's because I don't need them, I don't want them. I'm going to do what's good for you.  Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose my campaign, I certainly don't need them. Or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose Donald Trump's campaign, because I don't want the lobbyists. I've had plenty of lobbyists, they do a good job, they get you whatever you want. I wear their opposition as a badge of honor, believe me, right here.  Because it means that I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change or change that's going to make Hillary richer. I am fighting for all of us across the country, and we're fighting for peaceful regime change in our own country. That's what we have to have. We need it in our own country.  We have got a country that is so divided. Seldom has it ever been so totally divided. And it's very, very sad. Thank you.  The media/donor/political complex that's bled this country dry for years has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people. 

I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally.  And all of these countries that are ripping us off and taking our jobs, all of those countries will start to respect us again, folks.  We will reject bigotry and hatred, we will reject oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.  I am asking, so importantly, where we have already seen a tremendous amount of time, it doesn't mean anything if on November 8th we come in short. It'll look good in the history books, a lot of people will say congratulations, you're not a politician, nobody's ever done this before. But you know what? It doesn't mean anything unless on November 8th we go out and we win. Believe me.  You've got to get every one of your friends, you've got to get every one of your family, you've got to get everybody to go out and watch and go out and vote. And when I saw watch, you know what I'm talking about, right? You know what I'm talking about. I think you've got to go out and you've got to watch. I'm asking for your vote so that I can be your champion in the White House, and I promise you that's what I'm going to be.  To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, of which there are so many, I say these words to you tonight: I am with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you.  Together, we will make America strong again. Together, we will make America safe again. Together, we will make America great again.  Thank you! God bless you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. 

Thank you, everybody. I am so happy to be back in the great state of Texas. Thank you. Thank you.  The people of Texas are proud. They're independent and they are free.  There is no better place to deliver the message I have to deliver tonight than right here, right in the middle of freedom. Thank you.  Tonight's message is about re-declaring our independence as a country.  On November 8th, a very, very important date, we are going to declare our independence from special interests, corrupt politicians, and I might add, very corrupt politicians.  And from a rigged system that benefits only the insiders. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're bringing them back to our country. And we're going to create millions of new jobs.  We are going to declare our independence from politicians who don't listen to us and media executives that don't care about us. And by the way, who never report our massive and very, very friendly crowds. That's for sure.  We are going to declare our independence from rising crime, soaring poverty rates and crushing, crushing debt. We're going to declare our independence from failures of the past and create a new American future.  Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.  Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo.  It's going to be America first from now on. America first. 

Thank you.

Let me tell you what this new future looks like. We're going to cut taxes and create millions and millions of new jobs.  And we are not going to allow other countries to steal our businesses any longer.  We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare. It's a disaster.  We're going to appoint judges who will support, defend and uphold the Constitution of the United States.  We're going to save and cherish our Second Amendment, which is under siege.  We will ensure every veteran in this country has the right to seek medical treatment at a V.A. facility or with a private doctor of their choice if they don't get that kind of care.  We are going to eliminate job-killing regulations. We're going to unleash an American energy revolution like you've never seen before.  Let's talk about another issue that is so important to our future and the future of our children. That's the issue of crime. Violent crime is rising across the country. More than 2,700 have been shot in Chicago alone this year, 2,700 people shot.  No American should consider this level of crime acceptable. Every American has the right to live in safety and peace. A Trump administration is going to restore law and order.  And while we're at it, let me take this opportunity to thank our wonderful police and law enforcement officers.  This state...

This state has known unbelievable heartache in the recent days after the murder of five police officers and the wounding of another seven in the assault. And you know what we're talking about, the horrible assault on Dallas. We pray for the families and hope for the speedy recovery of the wounded. 

To all law enforcement in America, we are with you, we support you and we will always stand with you. We love you.  Together, we'll...

Together, we will create a safe community for every citizen in the land, but especially those and for those who have not known safety in a very, very long time. And there are plenty of people in our country who have not known safety for a long time. That includes appointing an attorney general and a secretary of Homeland Security who are completely committed to upholding the law.  I will appoint federal officials and investigators who will work hand-in-hand with police and citizens to dismantle gangs, cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people.  And they are all over the place. I will appoint prosecutors who will go into the most dangerous communities in America and work to liberate our citizens from violence and fear. All citizens deserve to be protected. No American will be left behind.  I want every African-American parent in this country and all parents in this country to be able to raise their children in safety.  I want to ensure every African-American child in this country and all children in this country who are put on a ladder to success. We are going to put people in this country on the ladder to success. A good education with a great paying job, that's success.  We're going to have school choice.  We're going to have charter schools and merit pay for our great teachers. My opponent, crooked Hillary Clinton...  ... discriminates against African-American students by opposing school choice and because she's owned and paid for by the education bureaucracy, and of course, Wall Street. That we know.  No one owns me. No one owns me. Believe me.  Nobody. I answer only to the American people. That's why I'm doing this. That's why I'm doing this. 

Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. In a New York Post column recently, Deroy Murdock published data confirming what I've been saying about the devastating economic conditions in the African-American communities. Murdock confirms these facts. The overall labor force participation rate...

The overall labor force participation rate for Black Americans has slipped from 63.2 percent down to 3.2 percent recently. This metric also slump for Black teenagers from 29.6 percent to 27.7 percent, down 6.4 percent. Going in the wrong direction. Everything going in the wrong direction. Our country is going in the wrong direction.  The percentage of Black Americans in poverty has grown under Obama, the Census Bureau reports, from 25.8 percent in 2009 to 26.2 percent, up too much. Too much. The number of Blacks on food stamps soared under Obama to 11.7 million people in 2014, up 58.2 percent.  Also, from Obama's arrival through last June 30, the percentage of Black Americans who own homes plunged 41.7 percent.  Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. That's no good and not fair. Fifty-eight percent of young African- Americans are not employed. Homicide is up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and up more than 60 percent in Baltimore, and up throughout all of our inner cities. Violent crime rose 17 percent in the 50 largest U.S. cities. This is the legacy of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. It can't get any worse.  To those suffering, I say what do you have to lose in trying Trump? What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I will fix it.  I will fix the problem. With rates of crime, with rates of poverty like you've just heard, what do you have to lose? I will fix the problem. We will fix it. Let me tell you what we have to gain. More jobs. We'll bring them in. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me. Believe me.  Higher wages and a massive reduction in the terrible crime plaguing our inner cities. We are going to turn it all around. Give Donald Trump a chance. I say this to the African-American community, give Donald Trump a chance. We will turn it around. We will make your streets safe so when you walk down the street, you don't get shot, which is what's happening now. That's what's happening now. Success has to be created for everyone and it has to be available to everyone. That's how we're going to create a new American future. But to make every American safe and prosperous, we must address one of the most vital issues of all, border security. 

We are going to build the wall.  And who is going to pay for the wall?

Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have massive trade deficits with Mexico, with China, with Japan, with everybody. Those deficits will go away. We're going to bring our jobs back. You're going to be so happy. But Mexico in fact will pay for the wall 100 percent.  We are going to enforce the law. We're going to protect your jobs and your wages. We are going to protect them. Your companies are not going to flee our country, think they can make their product and sell it back into our country without serious repercussion.  We are going to keep our country safe. According to the Texas government, nearly 200,000 illegal immigrants were booked into Texas jails between 2011 and 2016.  Collectively, those arrested were responsible for more than half a million criminal offenses, including 1,055 homicides, 5,516 sexual assault charges...  ... and more than 50,000 charges of either burglary or theft.  Not going to happen, folks. We're not going to let it happen to our country. It's enough. Yet Hillary Clinton wants a totally open border.  She wants catch and release.  She wants Obamacare and other things for illegal immigrants, in many cases, more than our great veterans get.  She has said she's going to give massive amnesty in her first 100 days.  She wants to gut Immigration Enforcement. The Immigration people to such a great job, but they have no leadership at the top. She supports sanctuary cities.  She wants to let people overstay their visas without removal.  One lawless order after another. We must not let that happen. We are going to vote for President Donald Trump. And we're going to stop it. 

We love Texas.  Love Texas. Hillary Clinton also wants a 550 percent increase over Obama, who's letting them come in by the thousands, in Syrian refugees. We have no idea who they are, where they come from, no paperwork. The great Trojan horse. It's going to be trouble, folks. There have been hundreds of immigrants and their children charged with terrorism inside the United States since 9/11 and a number of terrible attacks like the Boston bombing, San Bernardino and Orlando. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to fling open the flood gates to our borders, let everybody come in, open up our country, let people pour in. We don't know anything about them. It's going to be a nightmare for our country, just like it's turning out to be an absolute nightmare for Europe. Just ask them what's going on.  I want to create safe zones in the Middle East. And we'll get the Gulf States to pay for them. We owe almost $20 trillion, folks. We're not paying. But we want to help people. Look, I have as big a heart as anybody, believe me. We have to help people. We're going to build safe zones in the Middle East. We're going to get the Gulf States to chip in to pay for them because they have the money. They're not doing what they're supposed to be doing.  My plan suspends visas when we can't perform effective screening and it puts forward a new ideological screening program to keep out people from our country who don't support our values.  I'm calling it extreme vetting, extreme vetting. After all, that is what taking the oath of citizenship is all about.  Thank you. Thank you.

Is there any place that's better to be or safer to be than a Trump rally?  Right -- right in the heart of Texas.  This election, so important, will decide whether or not we have a border. This election will decide whether or not we have a country. Today, I met with the moms of incredible American children killed by illegal immigrants, as a result of the policies of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.  Hillary Clinton will never meet with these families. She will never hear their incredible, but so sad stories. She will never hear. She doesn't have the heart, believe me.

I would like to invite the mothers who lost their children to illegal immigration to join me on the stage right now. These are great people. They're here with the incredible Remembrance Project. Come on up.  I also want to invite very, very special people that I've gotten to know over the years. And they've given me their endorsement, first time ever in their history. The Border Patrol, folks. They are so good.  These are incredible people. The suffering that the families have gone through is incredible. And Jamiel Shaw, another friend of mine, what he's gone through is just unbelievable. So I just want to thank you. I want to say that we are with you 100 percent. And your children did not die in vain because we're not going to allow it to happen to others. So thank you very much.  Give them a big hand. Thank you very much. Border Patrol, amazing. Come here, Shaw. Come here. Say something. Thank you. 

Incredible people. What they've gone through, incredible.  Thank you, fellas. Thank you. And so many more hundreds, thousands, so many more. We will never let these families down. On immigration Clinton is bought and paid for by special interests. She's never going to do the right thing. 
This corruption relates closely to another corruption scandal that strikes at the heart of our country and our democracy. Every day more and more alarming facts come out. 

What are you going to do? The scandal I speak of is the State Department's pay-for-play. It's right now being looked at very seriously. Probably nothing will happen, even though it should happen, because she is being protected by our country like nothing ever before. And it's a disgrace. And as the world watches, it's such an embarrassment to everyone in this big arena. It is a total embarrassment. If the secretary of State can be bought or bribed or sold. Look, what's happening right now with government favors then the whole American system is threatened. So many people for doing so far less are right now suffering tremendous repercussions, tremendous, for doing so far less. For doing a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. It is a disgrace. This is a threat to the foundation of democracy, a threat. This is what happens in third world countries. It's the failed conditions of people. And this is why they flee to America and they come here and they get no better. Our laws and our country is being jeopardized. America can never elect a candidate who, like Hillary Clinton, did government favors for those giving her family and her foundation massive amounts of cash. 
The new revelations about Hillary Clinton's email scandal made clear we have only seen the tip of the iceberg. Hillary Clinton is desperate to cover up her crimes. And she has been unsuccessful. Except that some people that head up some very important groups have said it's OK, even though it was never OK for others. That's why she deleted 33,000 emails and she got away with it, sort of. 
That's also why she lied repeatedly to Congress and to the American public. She said she never sent or received classified materials. 
That was a lie proved over and over again. She claims she used her email server for the convenience of using only one device. 
But she used multiple devices. So that was yet another lie. 
She said she turned over all of her work-related emails. But the FBI found thousands she never turned over. And now just recently found another 15,000 more. 
That was another lie. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what she had on the 33,000 deleted emails? Can you imagine? She said she sent nothing marked classified, a total lie unmasked to the entire world. And more, and more to come. She said her server was secure and had no breaches. But we know now what was completely unsecure and the FBI director said it could be easily hacked by foreign enemies. 
More Clinton lies. Clinton said her lawyers reviewed all of her emails before destroying them. That was a lie. And why were her lawyers let free when they destroyed the emails? 
Lie after lie after lie. Hillary Clinton is totally unfit to hold public office.  
It is impossible to figure out where the Clinton Foundation ends and the State Department begins. It is now abundantly clear that the Clintons set up a business to profit from public office. They sold access and specific actions by and really for I guess the making of large amounts of money. 
Today a phone log was released for Cheryl Mills. 
I will say this. The Bernie protestors were much better, more...  They were much -- they had much more vim and vigor.  These have very, very, very little energy. So you had a phone log today that was released. She was Secretary of State Clinton's chief of staff. You would expect the log to contain only calls concerning Department of State business. But Cheryl Mills received 148 messages between 2010 and 2012 from the chief operating officer of the Clinton Foundation. No other individual or group appears to have left that many messages. We also just learned today that more than half the people who met with Hillary Clinton from outside government while she was secretary of State were donors to the Clinton Foundation. 
The specific crimes committed to carry out that enterprise are too numerous to cover in this speech. I walked through two of them yesterday. The sale of U.S. uranium to Russia and the exemption of a telecom giant from sanctions after they paid Bill Clinton a tremendous amount of money for a speech. 
The UBS saga is another one. Shortly after Hillary Clinton became secretary of State, she went to Geneva and intervened in a dispute concerning secret identities of Americans. That's nice. She negotiated a very good deal for UBS, and a very bad deal for law enforcement. Of the 52,000 accounts the U.S. was seeking, the government settled for only 4,450. Her intervention was described by Treasury as "unusual." Before her unusual intervention, UBS had donated only $60,000 to the foundation. After the Clinton favor for UBS, it opened its wallet for big bucks. And out came a $600,000 contribution, a $32 million loan, and a $1.5 million speaking fee for Bill Clinton. 
This is corruption. And this is why I have called for a special prosecutor to look into this mess.  Justice is supposed to be blind. It's never supposed to be for sale. Hillary Clinton thinks she's above the law. Come November the American people will show her that she is not. We will have a tremendous victory on Nov. 8. We will win and we will make America great again.  You will be voting for justice, fairness, equality and jobs. We will be working on making our inner cities and African-American people who have suffered so long in these unsafe, horrible places. They will be so proud of what takes place over the next four years if I'm elected president.  You will also be voting for a more inclusive country where no one, no one is left out. Another two million Latinas have joined the ranks of those in poverty. No good. Incomes for Latino households have declined by nearly $1,000 under President Obama. The number of Latino children living in poverty increased by 15 percent. Our pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-family agenda is going to bring back hope to every community in our nation.  I will dedicate myself to restore the ladder of success to all of those who live in poverty, of which there are tremendous numbers. We reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees communities of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. She is a disgrace.  The era of division is coming to an end. We will create a new future of American unity. Are you ready for real, real, real American change?  You'll get it. And it'll be beautiful.  It's time to emphasize what we all have in common as Americans. We will promote our common culture, values and principles. We will be one nation. We will be one people. We will share together one great future.  It's going to be America first again.  We will make America proud again.  We will make America prosperous again.  And we will make America safe again.  Friends, citizens and fellow Americans, we will make America great again. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Nov. 8, go out and vote. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. 

Wow. What a crowd. Beautiful. Beautiful. What a crowd.  Thank you, everybody.  I am thrilled to be with you today in Tampa.  We love Tampa. As you know, Florida is my second home, place I love. It's an amazing state and it's filled with so many incredible people. That's why I like it, the people.
For the next 75 days, we are going to have to work very hard together to win the White House on November 8th. We're going to win.  And we just had a great poll come out from Florida University just about a half an hour ago that we're leading by two points in the state of Florida.  Our victory on November 8th will be a victory for the people. For the people. It won't be a victory for the pundits. It won't be for the special interests that put up all of that Hillary money. And it won't be for the failed politicians. It will be a victory for you.  And maybe most importantly, for your family, for your country. It will be a victory for jobs, jobs, jobs. We're going to bring our companies back. We're going to have jobs back in this country again. We're bringing out jobs back. Manufacturing is down 40 percent. We're bringing our jobs back. And companies aren't going to leave our country so easily. There will be consequences when they do. It won't be so easy for them. But it'll be a victory also for security, for prosperity and it will be a victory for American independence. So important.  We will reject the failures of the past and create a new American future where every child -- African-American, Hispanic -- all children can live out their dreams together in peace and in safety.  We will bring back our jobs. We will rebuild our depleted military.  We love our military. It's been so badly depleted, folks, at a time when we need it just about the most ever. We are going to rebuild our depleted military and no better people than are in our military. But we're going to rebuild it. We're going to take care of our great veterans. They have been left behind. We're going to take care of our great veterans. We're going to unleash American energy. Restore law and order.  And we will make government honest once again, which it is not now, believe me. The stakes in this election could not be higher. Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes very substantially and send jobs to other countries. That's what she wants to do.  We are going to cut taxes dramatically and bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs to our shores.  And that is something I look so forward to doing. No one can do jobs like Trump. If you look at Florida, whether it's Doral or whether it's so many of the jobs we have on the beach. We have so many jobs in the state of Florida. And I'll tell you what. Those people love what we've done for them; high wages, great jobs, health care, education. We take care of our people. We have to take care of the people of our country. Believe me, we are not doing that.  Hillary Clinton wants to pass more terrible trade deals like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. She wants to pass it.  We are going to stop the TPP, totally renegotiate NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made by mankind, and protect every last American job. We're going to protect your jobs. They're not going to be disappearing from you anymore.
People in this room 18 years ago were making more money in wages than they're making today. And today, they're working harder and in many cases to a certain extent because of this horrible Obamacare, they're working two jobs. So they're getting older, they're working harder and they are making less. Not going to happen that way, folks. Not going to happen.  Of course, I'm working harder also and getting old. That's for sure. Hillary Clinton wants to expand the job killing regulations destroying small businesses in America. Regulations, by the way, are out of control in this country. We're going to cancel every needless job-killing regulation and put a moratorium on new regulations until our economy gets back on its feet. And even then, they're not going to be brought back. They're not going to be brought back.  They're not going to be brought back. You know, we need safety. We need a little environmental protection. We want clean air, we want clean water. But what they've done on top of that has been insane. It's killing our businesses and it doesn't allow our businesses to compete with other countries, and you're losing your jobs. We will create great numbers of American jobs beyond anything you've ever witnessed. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. The greatest. 

And speaking of jobs and speaking of the fact that we're going to do a great job on jobs, evangelicals, people of religion, Christians, Jews, Catholics, Muslims, everybody, you've got to get out and vote on November 8th.  And there's only one person you can vote for, Donald Trump. We're going to do it. We're going to do it. We're going to do it .  Hillary Clinton wants to put the miners and the steelworkers out of work. You've heard her.  You've heard her. We are going to lift restrictions on all American energy and we are going to stand up to foreign cheating -- which is what they're doing, they're cheating -- that threatens steel production in America. They're dumping all over this country because they want our steel to go out of business so they can make this deal for us and charge us plenty. Not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen.  Hillary Clinton wants to expand job-killing Obamacare and put government in charge of your health care. You know where that leads.  They tried that in Venezuela. You see what's happening? Not working. And many other places, it doesn't work. We are going to repeal -- and this is so important. Are you ready? We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare and create...  And by the way, I have to tell you -- always gets one of the most incredible applause -- people are dying with Obamacare. It's a disaster. Your premiums are going up by 40 percent, 50 percent. The number on November 1st -- and they're trying to move the date because it's an election changing number -- is going to be close to 50 percent. It could even be more than that. They want to make it in December. They don't want to reveal the numbers. Obamacare is a disaster. In the great state of Texas, they had almost a 50 percent increase going through Blue Cross Blue Shield -- almost a 50 percent increase, and the people are furious. You're going to have more than that. And folks, it's not going to work. It's dying of its own weight. Regardless of who becomes president, it is dead. She's going to try and save it by raising everybody's taxes. Believe me, we can come up with a plan that will be so much less expensive and so much better. And we will do that.
We will create choice and competition, and that's going to really make it swing. It's going to be an amazing thing to watch. All right. Hillary Clinton wants to trap children in failing schools, 100 percent. I want school choice. Choice. Choice. So you have competition. I want charter schools and I want merit pay for our great teachers. We should have merit pay. Nobody more important than a teacher. We should have merit pay for those teachers that are outstanding. We are going to put our kids onto the ladder of success, and that is a good education and then a great job. That's what we need.  This is so important for our inner cities. Our inner cities are suffering like never before. They have been run by Democrats for so many years. In some cases, over 100 years. Almost every inner city is run by the Democrats. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. Think of it. Fifty-eight percent of African- American youth are not employed, 58 percent. More than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. Not a long time. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. The Democratic Party has run, as I've said, nearly every inner city in this country for 50 or 60 or in some cases over 100 years. Over 100 years. They've produced only more poverty, only more crime, only more joblessness and broken homes all over the place at record levels. To those suffering and hurting and the people left behind, I say vote for Donald Trump. Vote for Donald Trump. 

What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? It cannot get any worse. And believe me, I'm going to fix it. I'm going to make it so good. So to the African-American voter -- great people. To the Hispanic voter who have been absolutely treated terribly, I say, what do you have to lose? What? I will fix it. I'll be able to make sure that when you walk down the street in your inner city or wherever you are, you're not going to be shot. Your child isn't going to be shot. Last night, I brought some incredible families up on stage with me, people that lost their child to illegal immigration, people whose child has been killed, people who have lost children -- devastated, can never be the same -- to people that came into the country illegally. We're going to fix that problem. And we're going to fix our inner cities. And I say to the African-American parents, you have a right to walk down the street of your city without having your child or yourself shot. And that's what's happening right now. That's what's happening.  To the Hispanic parents, you have a right to walk outside without being shot. You have a right to good education for your child. You have a right to own your home. You have a right to have a good job. The Democrats and Hillary Clinton policies, once she gets -- if she gets your vote -- and I think we're going to do great with African-Americans and with the Hispanics. But once she gets your votes, you know what she does? Bye-bye, folks. See you in four years. That's what it is. She's going to do nothing. She's going to do nothing. And you know what the truth -- she doesn't have the stamina to do it even if she wanted to, believe me. I'm asking for the honor of your vote so that I can fight for you. That's African-American, that's Hispanics and that's all Americans. We're going to make it better. Much, much better.
Because Hispanic citizens have been suffering under this president, too. Since President Obama came into office, another two million Hispanics have joined the ranks of those in poverty. Two million have joined the ranks of poverty, not of wealth. I want you to join the -- the ranks of people that are making phenomenal livings. That's what you want to join.  The number of Hispanic children living in poverty increased by 15 percent in that short period of time. So I'm going to fight to give every Hispanic citizen in this country a much better future, a much better life. And they know it. And they know it.  And I don't know if you've seen what's happening, but over the last three weeks, the polls with African-American folks and Spanish- speaking folks, the Hispanics, Latinos, have gone way up. Way up. They've gone way up. Because you know what? African Americans are tired of being used by these phony politicians. Hispanics are tired of being used by these phony politicians. And everybody else in our country is tired of being used by these phony politicians. Believe me.  And part of that better future means securing our border to protect the jobs of all of the people living here today. And that includes African-Americans, Hispanic Americans and all Americans. We're going to protect your jobs. We're going to also bring safety, but we're going to protect your jobs because your jobs are not being protected. Hillary Clinton wants to have a totally open border where people can just pour in and take your job and lots of other things happen.  We are going to enforce our laws, remove people who overstay their visas, dismantle the gangs and cartels and protect jobs and benefits for hard-working American citizens.  And many of them are African-American, by the way, and many of them are Hispanic. We're going to protect your jobs. That includes protecting the jobs and wages of the Hispanic citizens that and living right here in Florida. So many living right here in Florida. And this is their number one complaint because they don't know if the next day they're going to have a job because of people flowing in illegally into the state and into the country. They deserve to have their jobs protected from illegal immigration and broken visa programs. And they are broken. All Americans from all backgrounds have a right to have their jobs protected in their own country. Hillary Clinton would rather give a job to an illegal immigrant than to an unemployed Hispanic citizen, an unemployed African-American citizen or even to a veteran. Believe me.  It's going to be America first from now on. America first. 

Thank you. At the core of our America first agenda are three words, so important. These are so important. They solve so many problems. Are you ready?

Jobs, jobs, jobs.  That's why at the center of my economic plan is a tax cut for small businesses down to 15 percent from 35 percent.  Business will flourish. Jobs will pour into our country and new ones will be created. And I mean created all across the land. We're going to create jobs. Thirty-five percent -- we're one of the highest taxed nations in the world, if not the highest. And we're going to be one of the lower taxed nations in the world.
There are over 600,000 Hispanic-owned businesses here in Florida. Hillary Clinton's plan would smother them with new regulations, drive up their electricity bills and then raise their taxes to as much as almost 50 percent higher than they're paying now. Family-owned businesses would take a second hit with a 45 percent death tax so that you have a business, you want to leave that business to your children, you've been paying taxes all your life on that business and now the children have to pay so much that normally they have to either sell the business or close it up. It's not a fair tax. More in Florida than anywhere else because you have so many family businesses that cannot afford to pay a death tax. A Trump administration will be a true friend to small businesses and to all working Americans, that I can tell you.  That means bringing down taxes, bringing down the price of energy and bringing down job-killing regulations that cost our economy as much as $2 trillion a year -- $2 trillion a year, remember, $2 trillion. Does anyone know what a trillion dollars is? We've got two of them. We're also going to dramatically simplify our very, very complex tax code.  H&amp;R Block will be voting against Donald Trump, that I can tell you. Our current -- and you understand that. Our current tax code is so burdensome and complex that we waste nine billion hours he year in tax code compliance. That will end under a Trump administration. Hillary Clinton wants to make taxes even more complicated and will raise taxes by $1.3 trillion on you and everybody else.  Her anti-energy regulations will be a tax hike on the poor. Your energy bills are going to go through the roof, folks. According to Heritage Foundation, by 2030, the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion and reduce incomes by $7,000 a person per year. That means you're making less money in 2030 than you're making right now. We've already done that 18 years ago. Right now as a country, we have no growth. We have no growth. You saw that. A Trump administration will end this war on the American worker and unleash an energy revolution that will bring vast new wealth and power to our country.  According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on all sources of American energy will very simply increase GDP by more than $100 billion dollars annually. We need that so badly. Add over 500,000 new jobs annually and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years.  It will increase federal, state and local tax revenue by almost $6 trillion over four decades, increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over the next 40 years. My energy plan will help put trillions of dollars back into our economy. We'll be able to fix up our military, we'll be able to take care of our vets, we'll be able to help you with your Social Security, which everybody else wants to cut to shreds.
Now, with all of that being said, my all-time favorite subject: trade. How stupid are we to allow this to happen to us? Florida has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a Hillary Clinton-backed deal, one of the worst transactions ever signed in the history of our country. Probably not as bad as will be proven in the future as this horrible, incompetent Iran deal, but we'll get that -- we'll get to that a little bit later. That's another beauty. Honestly, these people don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they are doing. Florida lost one in five of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton and China -- and he put China into the World Trade Organization, which was also backed by Hillary. Our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year. So we work hard, we work so hard, but if you don't have the right leadership at the top, you're sort of wasting your time because you're not going to get it done. Think of it. We have a trade deficit -- trade deficit with the world of almost $800 billion dollars. Like Bernie Sanders said, she has terrible, terrible judgment. Got no judgment. Look at what she's got, folks. Take a look at the e-mails. She's got no judgment. The good news is if we win on November 8th, these jobs are coming back. They're all coming back.  Here are seven steps to bring back our jobs and create millions of new jobs. Number one; I'm going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks which have yet to be ratified. So important.  Number two; I'm going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers so that we make great trade deals with other countries instead of incompetent and bad trade deals.  We'll bring our jobs back here instead of having -- it's like a one-way -- it's like a one-way bridge, it all goes out of this country. The only thing that comes into our country is drugs. They pour into the country, the cash pours out. We don't do anything right. We have such bad leadership. I'm going to direct the secretary of commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements that a foreign country is currently using to harm American workers, of which there are many.  Because they rightfully think we're run by incompetent people. So I don't blame China, I don't blame Japan and Mexico and these other countries. They're getting away with murder, but if I were them, I'd be trying to do the same thing. I blame our leaders. I want us to be on the winning side. We will be on the winning side if you elect me on November 8th. I promise.  I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses. We're being abused. Now, the worst abuser is China. I like China. I've made a lot of money with China. I've done very well with China. They're tenants of mine -- their biggest bank in the world is a tenant -- condos, deals, office buildings, Bank of America buildings, so much. I've done great with China. We can do great with China, too. They have no respect for our country. They have no respect for our leadership. And we don't blame them, we don't blame them. We want to put ourselves in that position very soon. You watch. And they'll like us better than they do now. They don't like us. They're building a massive military fortress in the middle of the South China Sea that they're not allowed to do. They're doing that, and yet, they're ripping us economically. We have tremendous power over China -- economic power -- tremendous. We don't do anything. They build and build and build, and they didn't get environmental impact statements when they decided to rip up the sea. They said -- Sunday night, let's build. Monday morning, they were digging. A little different than our country, wouldn't you say? A little different. A little bit different. Number four; I'm going to tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that horrible agreement signed by Bill Clinton to get a better deal for our workers. And if we don't get the deal that we want, which has to be good and has to make up for all of these years of abuse and lost time, then we will walk away, which is fine.
I'm going to instruct my treasury secretary to label China a currency manipulator, the greatest in the world. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take unfair advantage of the United States and all of its companies who can't compete will face tariffs and taxes to stop the cheating. And when they see that, they will stop the cheating. I don't think our politicians even know what's going on. And they will stop or we're going to take in one hell of a lot of money, I'll tell you that. I'm going to instruct the United States trade representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO, World Trade Organization. China's unfair subsidy and its behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance into the WTO, and I intend to enforce our rules. That's all. Very simple.  And they know it's coming. They've called a lot of friends of mine. They know it's coming. They say, "What do we do? What do we do?" If China does not stop its illegal activities -- remember this. Our trade deficit with China is approximately $505 billion a year. Think of that, $505 billion. Somebody said, "Oh, but you'll stop trading with China." I said, "Is that good or bad? You tell me." We have to straighten it out, folks. We can't have deficits of $500 billion. We can't have deficits and we can start making things right here again, and it'll be very nice.  And I'm going to use every lawful presidential power to remedy the trade disputes, including the application of tariffs. And I'll tell you, we're going to probably have to at least use them in some cases because they have to understand, we're not playing games any longer, folks. We're not playing games.  If we take these steps, jobs and factories will come roaring back into our country. We can use the new money to rebuild our roads, bridges and airports. Manufacturing is also a matter of national security. It's national security. Our manufacturing is being decimated. Decimated. We're not going to have manufacturing. I am so tired of seeing manufacturing buildings that employed thousands and thousands of people being turned into nursing homes. It's fine, but you know what, that's not -- we have to -- we have to -- we have to build. We have to build, we have to manufacture. We need to build, produce and create right here in America. Right here in America.  Let me tell you a few more things that we're going to do. We're going to end government corruption.  Hillary Clinton ran the State Department like a failed leader in a third-world country. That's what it's run -- it's run like a third- world country. She sold favors and access in exchange for cash. She sold it. She sold favors, she sold access, and wait until you see when it's revealed all of those people. Now, it looks like it's 50 percent of the people that saw her had to make contributions to the Clinton Foundation. Wait until you see ultimately what she did for all of those people. Wait until you see. These are not people that go in, as I said, and talk about, how are you feeling. The people she met with outside of government...

The people she met with outside government as secretary of State, so many of these people made contributions. She even deleted 33,000 e-mails to hide evidence of her crimes. It's impossible to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and the State Department begins. She then lied about her crime to Congress over and over again. She lied to Congress. I don't know if Congress is going to do anything about it, folks. I'm so sick of looking and seeing and I hear reports, they don't do anything.
Congress ought to act. She lied to Congress 100 percent. Everybody agrees, and it takes so long for them to act. By the time they act, you're going to say, "What was it?" You won't even remembered what happened. Let Congress act today. Let Congress act immediately.  The FBI did not act. I have such respect for the FBI. I am so disappointed. I am so disappointed. I love the FBI. I have such high regard -- high respect for the FBI. How did they let that happen? She was so guilty. She was so guilty. The world is laughing at us, folks. And then you have Bill Clinton meeting with the attorney general in the back of an airplane for 39 minutes.  And he said they were talking about golf and their grandkids. Give me a break. And very importantly, Bill Clinton, after all of that and after the beautiful gift he was given, Bill Clinton essentially called the FBI director, James Comey, a liar when he said the FBI director was spouting bull. Can you imagine? Man, they don't realize that they owe the FBI director their political lives for refusing to recommend prosecution for Hillary Clinton's many, many crimes. And then he calls the director a liar. He saved Hillary Clinton from facing justice for her illegal and corrupt actions. They were illegal and they were corrupt, and the FBI saved her. And I would imagine many people within the FBI are extremely embarrassed. Extremely. Remember, Bill Clinton was impeached for lying and obstructing justice and also had to give up his law license -- people forget. Hillary Clinton created an illegal private e-mail server, deliberately, willfully and with total premedication -- premeditation. It could the first way was right, actually. You know, I might like the first way better.  Premedication, that's a very. Premedication -- I think I like it.  All right, premeditation. I love that. She did so to cover up a vast pay for play scheme. Her actions made our enemies vulnerable to foreign hacking and we are vulnerable. That's what's happened. We've become so vulnerable to foreign hacking and betrayed the security and safety of the United States, our military and all of our people. Her actions are criminal. They're purposeful and they're totally calculated. She knew what she was doing. That's why I call for a special prosecutor to look into this.  The problem is, with the administration rigging the system -- it's a rigged system, folks -- to protect her vast criminal behavior, the real jury is going to be the American voter on November 8th.  Hillary Clinton thinks she is above the law. She's got -- and honestly folks, she's got nothing going. She's got nothing going. There's nothing there. There's nothing going. There's nothing for you. That's going to be four more years of Obama, four more years of ISIS knocking the hell out of us all over the place and everyone else.  Got nothing going. Come November, the American people are going to prove that she is not -- she is not a person worthy of becoming the president of the United States.
We don't want four more years of Obama, and I think she would be worse than Obama. I've been watching so carefully over the past month. Hillary Clinton doesn't do speeches, she doesn't do press conferences. It's been almost 300 days. She doesn't do rallies of any consequence. She doesn't do this kind of stuff. We have all these . She's failed at filling the arenas. If you look at her events, they should show those arenas. They never show our arena is packed, but they should show her arenas that are empty.  People don't know where she is. Her supports have really -- her supporters have very little enthusiasm. The only people enthusiastic about her campaign are Hollywood celebrities, in many cases, celebrities that aren't very hot anymore and Wall Street donors, special interests, lobbyists, et cetera that want to control government, not to the benefit of our country, but to the benefit of their wallet.  Even her protesters don't have the spirit that Bernie protesters had. We had some protesters last night. We had a massive rally last night and we had some protesters. It's like they raised their hand and people -- they're so nice. The cameras don't even cover her protesters, which is bad. I like it when the camera covers the protesters because then they finally show how many people we have at these things. Her protesters have so little enthusiasm for her and they're so boring that the cameras don't follow them. So it's sad when you think about it . I like the Bernie protesters better. They had enthusiasm. By the way, a reminder to everyone here, register to vote. You've got to register to vote. We have a movement going on, folks. This is a movement. This is a movement. I'm going to Mississippi in a little while. We have tens of thousands of people. We're only confined by the size -- look at this -- back to the corners. We're only -- we're only confined -- we set a record here today. We always set records. We always do.  In four, instances for some reason, we have beaten Elton John's record, who's a great guy. We've beaten Elton John -- and he has pianos, right, I don't have a piano. No piano, but we have beaten four times Elton John's record at arenas. Together, we're going to restore ethics and honesty to our government. We're also going to restore safety to our country. Hillary Clinton -- and maybe this bothers me almost more than anything else because I know bad things are going to happen. Hillary Clinton wants to increase by 550 percent over Obama -- thousands and thousands of Syrian refugees coming into our country.  Overall, her plan would bring in 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending countries in her first term. This is at the same time we and Europe and everywhere else is experiencing tremendous problems not only with attacks but with lone wolf attacks. That's sickos that by themselves do tremendous destruction. You look at San Bernardino. You look at wherever. You look at Orlando. You can look anywhere you want. The lone wolf attacker, the sicko -- the sicko -- and we're allowing them in by the tens of thousands. How stupid are we? How stupid are we? And you mark my words, I've been very good at predicting things. Been very, very good. People are writing me letters saying you predicted -- I predict a lot of things. Bad, bad things are going to be happening with these people pouring into our country. Bad things are going to be happening. Bad, bad things. You watch. We're going to build a wall, don't you worry about it. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build the wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall 100 percent.
And it's going to be a big wall. It's going to be a real wall. It's going to be as beautiful as a wall can be, but it's going to be a wall. And we're going to have protection for tunnels so that people can't tunnel under. We can easily have protection. But we're going to have protection for tunnels. We're going to have a real border. We're going to have a real wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. Mexico, right now -- we have a trade deficit with Mexico of approximately $60 billion a year. Believe me, the wall is peanuts compared to the kind of money they're making with the United States. And speaking of that, and I've said this, we are losing so many jobs to Mexico and other places. There have to be -- there have to be repercussions from this. We cannot allow this to happen. We cannot allow these countries because their leaders are smarter than our leaders, because their negotiators are better, because we have frankly, very, very stupid people representing us. We cannot allow this to continue to happen, whether it's Carrier Air Conditioning or Ford or any other -- I could name hundreds -- hundreds and hundreds of companies, millions and millions of jobs. Millions and millions. We cannot allow this to continue to happen. We won't have a country any longer. I'm going to suspend immigration wherever effective screening cannot take place and I am going to institute a new ideological screening program to keep out people who don't share our values of love and respect.  Moving forward, we are going to start promoting American values once again. It's time to put the era of division behind us and to embrace a new American future based on our common values and our principles, our principles.  And if people don't like our values and if people don't like our principles, tell them don't come in.  I understand that the Wall Street donors and the Washington insiders don't want change. We know why, they're making a fortune. They want things to keep going on exactly as they are. That's why they're throwing so much money to Hillary Clinton. It's the powerful protecting the powerful. I used to do that also, folks. I hate to tell you, it's very easy. I know the business better than anybody. I know this subject better than anybody who's ever run for any office, OK?  Sixteen months ago, I was the fair-haired way, and all the sudden, I'm an outsider. It took just a few words -- "I'm going to run for president." I became an outsider.  It's insiders fighting for insiders, but I'm fighting for you. That's why I'm doing this.  I built a great company -- believe me, I didn't need to do this. This is a lot of work, a lot of energy and I'm spending my money, by the way -- a lot of energy. We are -- we are doing well. It's a movement. It's a movement. A real movement. We're going to get it turned around. We're going to stop crime. We're going to bring back our jobs. We're going to straighten out our inner cities. We're going to do a lot of things. And by the way, we are going to save our Second Amendment which is under siege.  If in San Bernardino or Orlando or Paris -- where by the way, they have the toughest gun laws in the world. If you had this gentleman right there or this woman right here, right, or that gentleman right there standing there with a gun strapped to his or her side when these animals came in and they started shooting people that had absolutely no protection, it would have been a whole different story, folks.
Would've been a whole different story. And if they had even an inkling, if they thought that guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have even gone there in the first place, OK? Very simple. So we're going to protect our Second Amendment. So I'm an agent of change, I am. And Hillary Clinton is a total defender of the status quo. I don't think you can be too happy with the status quo.  I'm asking for your vote so we can create the new American future.  This includes millions of new jobs through lower taxes, less regulation and trade deals that put America first. It includes the appointment of justices to the United States Supreme Court...  ... who are going to protect our freedom, and that includes they'll be protecting the Second Amendment.  So important, folks. Justices of the Supreme Court. Remember, Justice Scalia, great man. We're going to try and get people of that thought process, that thinking, that intellect. But we already have one, and if she chooses four or five -- it could be as many as five, could be a record in the history of this country of new judicial appointments. If she puts people in that are radical left, you have got yourselves a whole different country. We're going to have a new foreign policy that focuses on defeating ISIS, not nation-building. We've tried the nation building, doesn't work, not going to work, never going to work. Hillary Clinton's reckless policies unleashed ISIS onto the world in the first place. She will never have the judgment or the stamina to fix the problems that she created. She created so many problems. It was just announced in a new poll that people feel the country is less safe today than it was before 9/11. Pretty bad poll, that's pretty bad. With all the money we spent, all the trillions and trillions of dollars that we spent, people feel less safe today than they did then. In the meantime, our country is dying, our infrastructure is sick, our roads are terrible, our bridges are falling. Our schools, you take a look at what's happening there. Our tunnels. Everything is bad. And all of that money was spent. It was spent and wasted by people that didn't have a clue. We're going to change it around, folks. We're going to defeat terrorism and keep the terrorists the hell out of our country.  And finally, we're going to create a more inclusive society where no American is left behind. We're going to bring back jobs, opportunity and hope to every community in our nation, every community. Once again, we're going to have a government of, by and for the American people.  This is going to be your country, your government and your really great future. It's going to be a great future. The rule of special interests is over, it's gone if I win. If I don't win, it will be worse than ever before, you will see. You will see. But hopefully, you will not get a chance to see because we're going to turn it around. We're going to turn it around and it'll be a beautiful thing.

Thank you. We will bring America together as one country again. We are so divided. We are so terribly divided so many ways. President Obama is a great divider. He doesn't know how to put things together. He doesn't have a clue.
We will bring it together as one country, united as Americans in common purpose and common dreams. And that's what it is, it's dreams. We dream of having it right. It will be right. It will be right. We're going to have a driving economy. We're going to have a strong, strong, strong border that people are going to respect. And the drugs are not going to be flowing across like gravy .  We're going to have a powerful military, not a depleted military like we have now.  And our vets are part of our military. Our vets are going to be treated incredibly well, as they have to be. They're our great people. We're going to have a peaceful nation, a rising standard of living. This is what I promise you. Let's get out there and win on November 8th.  And if we do, if we do, we will make America wealthy again. We have to be wealthy.  We have almost $20 trillion in debt. We have to make our country wealthy again. And we will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again -- proud.  You won't be embarrassed like you are now, with the Iran deal or when you see $400 million being sent on airplanes to terrorists. Who, by the way, won't use that money for terror; they're gonna put that money in Swiss bank accounts. They've got plenty other money to use for terror. Think of these people. They have a plane arrive with $400 million in cash. All different denominations. They've got it right. $400 million in cash. Nobody could believe it. And it turned out that it was actually for the hostages, despite the lies of Obama. It was for the hostages.  He couldn't have been happy when his representatives said it was for the hostages. Couldn't have been happy. You know, it's like Obamacare, if you remember, 28 times, "Keep your doctor, keep your plan." Remember? Over and over and over again. And then some Democrats, they actually voted because of that. Over and over he lied and he lied and he lied. Well, he lied about the hostages too. $400 million in cash; he lied about that. We will make America safe again.  And we will make America great again for each and every American.  You will be so proud of your president. And more importantly, you will be so proud of your country.  Thank you. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.  Senator, Governor and Rudy, thank you very much. Wow, what a group! What a group! Very excited, very, very excited to be with you tonight. Thank you very much.  The people of Jackson and the state of Mississippi have such incredible energy, that very powerful word "energy," unbelievable, incredible energy and spirit, folks. Thank you very much. And thank you for all the support you've given me right from the beginning. I will not forget it, Mississippi. We love Mississippi right from the beginning, right from the beginning.  This is the spirit we need to rebuild our country a hundred percent.  And this is our chance to break free from the bitter failures of the past and to create a new American future.  To everyone watching across our nation right now, to everyone who has been let down by our terrible, terrible politicians, I am asking for your vote on November 8th.  This is your chance to remove the special interests from their throne of power and to once again have a government of, by and for the people. 

No one will be left behind anymore.  I'd like to take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to everyone at the American University in Kabul, Afghanistan. They are going through a lot. We must defeat radical Islamic terrorism!  Anyone who will not name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.  Eight years of Obama/Clinton policies have sacrificed our safety and undermined our freedom and independence. Our jobs have moved to other countries. Islamic terrorism has spread within our shores. And an open border has crushed low-income workers and threatened, and I mean totally threatened, our security.  The issues we face here in America are similar to the issues faced in Britain during their referendum on membership in the European Union. This is the movement known as Brexit. On June 23rd, the people of Britain voted to declare their independence, which is what we're looking to do also, folks...  ... from their international government which hasn't worked. They voted to break away from rule by large corporations and media executives who believe in a world without borders.  They voted to reclaim control over immigration, over their economy, over their government.  Working people and the great people of the U.K. took control of their destiny.  The people profiting from the rigged system, and it is rigged, we're finding it out every single day, the multinational banks, the media celebrities, the big donors tried to scare the British people out of voting for change. The same thing is happening right here in the United States. It's happening. All the people benefiting from our rigged system don't want things to change. They want you to believe things can't be changed. And they can so easily, so easily and so smartly. And we all know things have to change. We have no choice. And they have to change right now.  Before the vote, I said that Britain would leave the EU, sometimes referred to as European Union, and I said it and I took a lot of heat when I said it. People said, what does he know, what does he know? And guess what? I was very supportive of their right to do it and to take control of their own future, like exactly what we're going to be voting for on November 8th.  Hillary Clinton, who has been on the wrong side of history in every major decision, she's only made bad decisions, she's got bad judgment, she doesn't know what she's doing, folks.  She got this one wrong, too.

She got this one wrong, too, folks. She got this one wrong, too. She gets them all wrong. She gets them all wrong, doesn't she? She really got the e-mails wrong, that I can tell you.  And now Hillary wants to surrender America to globalism, just what we don't want.  She wants a country without borders. She wants trade deals written for the benefit of foreign corporations. She wants a government that ignores the will of the people.  She wants to sell out American security to the Clinton Foundation for a big, fat pile of cash.  It's hard to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and where the State Department begins. According to the Associated Press, more than half the meetings she took as secretary of state with people outside government were with foundation donors.  Hillary Clinton does not believe in America first. We believe in America first.  Hillary believes in donors first and special interests and lobbyists. She will never straighten out our country. She doesn't have the strength, the stamina or the ability to straighten out our country. We'll have four more years of Obama and that's just what we don't want.  She would rather give a job to a refugee from overseas than an unemployed American veteran or to an unemployed African American or Hispanic.  The job of a public official is to serve and protect the citizens of the United States...  ... not illegal immigrants, not foreign nationals seeking entry, but the people living here lawfully today, including millions of African-American and Hispanic citizens, millions, millions being treated very, very unfairly, I can tell you that. My focus will always be on the well-being of more than 300 million American citizens who call this country home and who love their country. 

I will fight for their security. I will fight for their jobs. We will not let jobs be taken out of our country, be ripped out of our country and moved to Mexico and many other countries. We will not let it happen anymore.  We'll be fighting for their jobs and we'll be fighting for your families, that I can tell you. It ends. What's been going on ends on November 8th.  We will have one American nation, not divided, we will be together. Hillary Clinton has betrayed her duty to the people. November 8th is our chance to re-declare American independence.  This is a great honor for me. I am going right now to invite onto the stage the man behind Brexit and a man who led brilliantly the United Kingdom Independence Party in this fight and won despite all odds, despite horrible name-calling, despite so many obstacles. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nigel Farage. 

Wow! Thank you, Nigel. What a job! What a job he did. What a job he did against all odds. Thank you, Nigel. That was some job that he did against all odds. Everybody said it couldn't be done. And by the way, it's looking like a very wise decision right now by the voters, so I really congratulate Nigel and I thank you for being here. Thank you.  And if I may, we had some tremendous polls come out today. I won't bring it up, I refuse to mention it, but they were very good. We're leading in a lot of locations.  Thank you. It's time for America to recapture, like you just heard, to recapture our destiny. Our government leaders and our media have totally lost touch with the people. They have, they have totally lost touch. You need no better evidence of that then the fact that the media ignores the plight of Americans who have lost their children to illegal immigrants, but spends day after day pushing for amnesty for those here in total violation of the law. We can't allow that.  Why do our leaders spend so much time talking about how to help people here illegally, they're here illegally, and they spend and they work and they try so hard to help them, but they don't try helping American citizens, some of whom have been devastated by what's happened to their children and their families? Devastated. My priorities will never change: jobs, wages and security for Americans.  And the immigration policy I support as president must pass these three tests. First, it must improve jobs and wages for United States citizens.  We have people in this room who were making more money in real wages 18 years ago, were not working as hard as they're working now and they've gotten older, not supposed to be that way, and in many cases and largely because of the disaster known as "Obamacare" they have to hold two jobs, not one, but two jobs and, in some cases, three jobs. Not going to happen, folks, not going to happen. Second, it must improve the safety and security for United States citizens.  Third, it must improve the quality of life for U.S. citizens. The quality of life, our quality of life is going down. Our level of security, you look back years, you're more insecure now in terms of security than you were 10, 15 and 20 years ago. Hillary Clinton's radical immigration plan fails these tests and it fails them very, very badly. Her push for open borders will lower the wages and kill the jobs of lawful American residents.  Her support for catch-and-release will put innocent American lives at risk and already has, just like President Obama released the illegal immigrant at the border who then killed magnificent, magnificent Sarah Root. Yesterday I met with her mom, Michelle. Hillary Clinton only talks about the separation of families who choose to come here illegally. I want to focus on the American families who have been permanently separated from their children because of the sanctuary cities and open borders that Hillary Clinton so strongly supports.  Where is the sanctuary for American children? Where is that sanctuary? The dreamers we never talk about are the young Americans. Why aren't young Americans dreamers also? I want my dreamers to be young Americans.  Hillary Clinton also wants to push to bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term...  ... a large number of whom come from large countries where women and gays are horribly brutalized, which will weaken our tolerant way of life. I only want to bring people to our country who share our values and love our people and are capable of loving America.  Importantly, I will also create millions and millions of jobs for our people.  We are going to cut taxes, reduce regulations, fix our trade deals, unleash American energy and repeal and replace the horror show known as "Obamacare."  We are going to create jobs, jobs, jobs!  I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me.  So we're going to have millions and millions of jobs, jobs like you have never seen in this country before, because our jobs are being stolen from us, our companies are being stolen from us, our manufacturing is down by 40 percent and 50 percent and numbers that nobody even believes. Those days will be over if Donald Trump is elected president of the United States, believe me.  Rising incomes, higher wages, thousands of new companies all across this nation, they'll come in and they'll form. We are going to renegotiate the worst trade deal ever made, not only in this country, but anywhere in the world, known as NAFTA and signed by Bill Clinton.  We're going to stand up to China on trade. We're going to keep out of what will be a disastrous trade deal, Trans-Pacific Partnership, TPP.  It will not happen with me. It will absolutely happen with crooked Hillary, believe me. This state has lost more than 40 percent of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, and it's lost one in four manufacturing jobs since he put China into the World Trade Organization, both deals supported by Hillary Clinton. Horrible deals, destructive deals, what those deals have done to our jobs and to our country. We are going to bring back jobs to Mississippi...  ... and in North Carolina, which has treated me so well, and Ohio and to Michigan where our auto plants are leaving and leaving and leaving and going to Mexico and other places, and to Pennsylvania, where I went to school, and to Maryland and all across this land. We're going to bring our jobs back and we're not going to let our jobs be taken away. 

Thank you. Thank you. And I'm going to make it my personal mission to bring opportunity, safety and prosperity to our very, very troubled inner cities.  The Democratic Party has failed and betrayed the African-American community.  Democratic crime policies, education policies and economic policies have produced only more crime, more broken homes and more poverty than we've ever had in those communities before.  Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. More than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of this year alone.  Violent crime has risen 17 percent, and in America's 50 largest cities it's only going one way, folks, and that's up. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent from last year in Baltimore. The Democratic Party has taken the votes of African Americans totally for granted, and they've done nothing in return.  They've just assumed they'll get your support and they've done nothing, absolutely nothing to deserve it. It's time to give the Democrats some competition for African- American votes and for Hispanic votes.  It's time to rebuild the inner cities of America and do it properly. It's time to reject the failed leadership of a rigged political system. And I was the first to use that term, it's a rigged, disgusting system. To those hurting and suffering and left behind, I say, what do you have to lose by trying something new? What do you have to lose by voting for Donald Trump for president? What do you have to lose? I will fix the problem. I will fix the problem.  If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same horrible results. But I also want to talk about what you have to gain, right? Right? What do you have to gain? We will create school choice and allow charter schools to absolutely thrive.  What else will we gain? We will empower young Americans to pursue their dreams of opening a small business and make it easier for them to get the credit that they need.  We will renegotiate our horrible trade deals to bring back jobs and opportunity. And the African-American community and the Hispanic community will be our biggest beneficiary of that.  We will lower taxes and unleash job creation and we will tap into trillions of dollars in new energy wealth that we never even knew we had before.  We will protect your jobs from illegal immigration and broken visa programs. And we will rebuild the roads, the bridges, the infrastructure, the tunnels, the airports in your communities and we will rebuild it with our companies, with our steel and with our labor.  Hillary Clinton is a bigot who sees people of color...  ... only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. She's going to do nothing for African Americans. She's going to do nothing for the Hispanics. She's only going to take care of herself, her husband, her consultants, her donors. These are the people she cares about. She doesn't care what her policies have done to your communities. She doesn't care. Remember this. You've had her policies, Democrats running some of the inner cities for 50, 70, 80, even over a hundred years. And look what you have right now, poverty, no education, crime, you can't walk down the street with your child. We're going to fix it, we're going to fix it.  Hillary Clinton has no remorse. I will fight to create a better future for every American. The hedge fund managers and Wall Street donors are throwing money at Hillary Clinton to try and stop our change agenda. Of course, if they start looking at the polls they may stop doing that.  They're going to have to start studying those polls. That's why you need to come out and you have to vote, you have to vote.  That is why you must make your voice heard on November 8th, have to do it.  Another crucial issue in this race is national security. Hillary Clinton may go down as the worst secretary of state that has ever served in that office.  Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009 before the Obama/Clinton administration, that I call a catastrophe, took over. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished, would never have happened. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions. Fast forward to today. After spending $4 trillion, maybe $5 trillion, nobody even knows how much money has been sucked out of our country, what have the decisions of Obama/Clinton produced? Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations, they're all over the world. Syria is in the midst of a totally disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of the territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and is threatening the United States because Hillary is allowing these people to pour into our country. And we don't know who they are, where they come from. We know nothing. Iraq is in chaos and ISIS is on the loose. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West. At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and definitely, folks, definitely, I've been very good at predicting, definitely into the United States.  Iran has become the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is now flush with up to $150 billion in cash released by the United States, plus another $400 million in cash, cash, cash ransom...  ... that President Obama said had nothing to do with ransom, had nothing to do with the hostages, and his own people said he was wrong.  He lied. He lied. Just like he said Obamacare, "keep your plan, you'll keep your doctor," 28 times, "keep your plan, keep your doctor." And because of that lie, Democrats that would have never passed it passed it and now they regret that they passed it because it is a total disaster.  Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number-one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. In short, the Obama/Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East and put the nation of Iran, which chants, constantly chants "death to America" in a dominant position of regional power and in fact aspiring to be a dominant world power. And we put them there over the last three years!  This is the legacy of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton: death, destruction, terrorism and weakness.  But Hillary Clinton's legacy does not have to be America's legacy. We're going to end the era of nation-building, a disastrous concept, a disastrous era, and create new foreign policy joined by our partners in the Middle East that is focused completely on destroying ISIS. We have no choice destroying ISIS.  We will extend a hand of friendship to any nation that will work with us in good faith on this vital mission. I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our people, our citizens, trying to hurt the world, but trying to hurt the United States: We will find you, we will destroy you and we will win! 

Thank you. Thank you. This is not only a military fight, but it will also require cyber warfare and financial warfare. It's also an ideological fight. We will confront directly the hateful, it's just so hateful, ideology of radical Islam and promote American values and American culture and America's system of government. Only by standing up for and supporting, we have to stand up for and support, our values can we become a united country once again...  ... a country of great jobs and wealth, a country of security and freedom, a country of strength and unity. The future is limitless. All we have to do is believe in America once again. We have to believe it can happen. It can happen.  We will put back our faith in America's special destiny. We will lift the burdens on small business which is being driven into extinction by what's happening in our government. We'll create a level playing field for American workers. We'll never ever let what's happened to them happen to them again. We'll establish justice and opportunity and safety in every community in the land. I am asking for the vote of every citizen in this country, African American, Hispanic, all Americans, all Americans who want a better, brighter and stronger future for yourselves and for our country.  I am the change candidate. This is our moment to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.  I am asking for your vote so I can be your champion in the White House. I will be your champion and I will work hard to be your champion. And I won't be playing golf instead of going to see the people in Louisiana who have been devastated by floods.  I'm going to be the champion to every parent who dreams for their children. And to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I am with you, I will fight for you, and we will win for you, we will win.  Together we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, we will make America great again. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you, Mississippi. We love Mississippi. God bless you. Thank you.

-- first. Your needs are going to come first. The real divide in this election is not between left and right, but between everyday working people and a corrupt political establishment that works only for itself.  This election is a chance for the great majority of decent citizens to end the rule of a small group of special interests and to return that power to the voters or, as we would say, to the people.  Hillary Clinton believes only in government of, by and for the powerful. I am promising government of, by and for the people.  And this fight, which will be a big one, we are taking on...  ... let's just win on November the 8th.  That would be the ultimate and that's what we're going to do because in this fight, we're taking on some very entrenched and well financed interests. Money is pouring in to her campaign by the special interests, the lobbyists, the donors, the people that own the companies that are moving your jobs to Mexico and other places. These are the same people who pay Hillary $10,000 a minute for a speech. Not a good deal.  Not a good investment. These special interests are the same people who own the newspapers that cover up her crimes. They're covered up. These are the same Wall Street firms who paid Hillary Clinton a quarter of a million dollars each time she delivered her secret remarks, that nobody knows what she said. They're the same people who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton over $150 million for speeches since Bill left the office.  And who donated countless millions of dollars more to the Clinton Foundation.  But you have the power, with your vote -- and by the way, New Hampshire is a very, very important state in this election; very important.  And if I win New Hampshire -- OK, when I win. OK.  OK, when I win. Just remember this. This is a promise. New Hampshire is staying right where it is in terms of primary. It's an unbelievable state and an unbelievable tradition. And there's a lot of talk of moving you to the back of the pack. That's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. So, I give you my word, New Hampshire stays right where it is. OK?  So you have the power, with your vote, to defeat those special interests and put the people back in charge once more like it's supposed to be. This has been a very historic week in American politics. The voters have always known that our leadership in Washington, D.C. is corrupt, and that the system is very badly rigged -- a word that I believe I used first, that has been copied all over the place. It's badly rigged and it's broken. But this week, the curtain was truly lifted. The corruption was revealed for all to see. The veil was pulled back on a vast criminal enterprise run out of the State Department by Hillary Clinton.  As the Associated Press documented, more than half of the meetings Hillary Clinton took as secretary of state with people outside government were Clinton Foundation donors.
Hillary's chief of staff received more messages from the Clinton Foundation's chief operating officer than just about anybody else; 85 donors alone that she met with as secretary gave the foundation $156 million. And I know many of these people. I know many of these people. These are not people that are going up to pay their respects and say, "Madam Secretary, how are you feeling? Isn't it a beautiful day? The weather is so beautiful." These are people that want things for their donation. These are people that expect things for their donation. And when you follow it out and you see the people that left her office, you take a look at what those people, those companies, and those countries got, believe me, you will find out it is plenty. On top of that, Bill Clinton's total speaking fees rose 44 percent while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, often raking in money from people who had business or matters before the State Department. Very simple. As I said weeks ago, Hillary Clinton ran the State Department like a personal hedge fund. It's hard to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and where the State Department begins. Access and favors were sold for cash. It's called pay for play. Over and over and over, people who donated to the Clinton Foundation, or who gave money to Bill Clinton got favorable treatment from Hillary Clinton's State Department. The examples are too many to name here in full. And I've gone over, I will tell you, I've looked at so many over recent days, but they include the deal to sell 20 percent of United States uranium to Russia.  Or the very favorable treatment given to UBS, big bank giant. It includes -- we're all sick of it.  It includes the exemption of telecom giant Ericsson from government sanctions. It includes efforts to put a foundation donor with no national security experience at all onto a highly sensitive national security panel that he wanted to be on, with access to top secret information. It includes foundation donors getting lucrative contracts in Haiti, all while the people of Haiti suffered horribly and are not, by the way, big fans of the Clintons.
But these examples are only the tip of the Clinton corruption iceberg. Hillary Clinton's actions constitute all of the elements of a major criminal enterprise. You know it. The government knows it. And she knows it. She created a private -- she created a private, illegal mail server in order to hide her corrupt dealings. That's all it is, folks. Very simple. She knew what she was doing 100 percent. She did so knowing full well it would put American lives at risk by making classified information highly vulnerable to foreign hacking. And that's what happened. And by the way, people that do two percent of what she did, their lives have been destroyed. But she didn't care, as long as it helped her get away with her crime. No risk to America was too great. It didn't matter to her. And now she's running for president. Then to further cover up her crime, she deleted 33,000 e-mails to keep them out of the hands of the authorities and the American public. As a further element of the criminal coverup, she claimed under penalty of perjury that she turned over all of her work-related e- mails. We now know this to be one more massive Clinton lie and deception. The FBI found thousands of work-related e-mails she failed to turn over, including the new discovery this week of 15,000 more work-related e-mails she did not disclose. What is being uncovered now is one of the most shocking scandals in American political history. It's Watergate all over again. It's Watergate. And she's being totally protected by our government. Our secretary of state sold her office to corporations and foreign governments, betraying the public trust, putting innocent lives in danger, and then she went to great lengths to hide, delete, destroy and lie about the evidence. Just like her lie that she never sent any material marked "classified." Total lie. Lie after lie after lie. This is the corruption we expect to see in a third-world country, but not in the United States of America. Just imagine the damage to our security, to our integrity, to our standing in the world. And believe me, the world is laughing as they watch. If Hillary Clinton is allowed to sell the Oval Office in the same way she sold her office as secretary of state, and she can't help herself. She cannot help herself. We cannot let this happen, can't let it happen. We must vote on November 8th to keep the American government from being sold to the highest bidder.
Vote to save your country. So important. So important. You folks have no idea how important you are in this room and this state. So important. And by the way, folks, if you're looking at the poll numbers, take a look. We're doing very well. They're very well.  Very well. So vote to protect your family. Vote for honesty, integrity, and accountability now, as all of these revelations have been discovered -- some this week, many this month. Hillary Clinton has been hiding. She's been hiding. Where is she? Although I hear for the first time in a long time she'll be making some kind of a quick statement tonight, but she's emerging, not to take the responsibility for her unethical and criminal conduct, but instead to make one of the most brazen attempts at distraction in the history of politics. Now, I've not seen what Hillary is going to say, but I've heard about it. And in a sense, I don't want to dignify her statements by dwelling on them too much. But a response is required for the sake of all decent voters that she is trying to smear. The news reports are that Hillary Clinton is going to try and accuse this campaign, and all of you, and the millions of decent Americans at record levels. There has never been anything like this. This is a movement we have. This was set up. This event was set up late last night, and look what happens. Look how many people.  It's a movement, folks, like they've never seen before. And going to accuse decent Americans who support this campaign, your campaign, of being racists, which we're not.  It's the oldest play in the Democratic playbook. When Democratic policies fail, they are left with only this one tired argument: You're racist, you're racist, you're racist. They keep saying it. You're racist. It's a tired, disgusting argument. And it's so totally predictable. They're failing so badly. It's the last refuge of the discredited Democrat politician. They keep going back to the same well. 
But you know what? The people are becoming very smart. They've heard it too many times before. The well is dry. The well is dry.  This is the year the American people, who believe in much better and much more honest politics say the word "enough," "enough."  This is the year that the people who have been betrayed by Democratic policies, including millions and millions of African American and Hispanic American citizens, reject the politicians who have failed them over and over and over again, for 50 years, for 75 years, without break, for even in some cases 100 straight years. They failed them, and you're going to vote for a change. It's time.  As I've discussed for many days now, Democratic politicians have run nearly every inner-city in America for the 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100 years. Their policies have produced only more poverty, total joblessness, and failing schools.  Every policy Hillary Clinton supports is a policy that has failed and betrayed communities of color in this country. But she doesn't care. She's too busy raking in cash from people and rigging the system and taking the African American vote and the Hispanic vote and saying, "We're going to do a great job." And right after the election, it's "bye-bye, I'll see you in four years."  Nothing happens. Nearly four in 10 African American children live in poverty; 58 percent of African American youth are not working; more than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago this year alone. These are the consequences of Hillary Clinton's policies and the policies of people that think like her. She has brought nothing but pain and heartache and broken promises to your inner cities. On top of that, she wants to raise taxes on African American-owned businesses to as much as nearly 50 percent more than they're paying now.  I am lowering taxes very, very substantially. She is asking for a major tax increase.  We should be helping these businesses grow and expand, create jobs. But Hillary Clinton is virtually trying to shut them down. She opposes school choice.  education is a disaster. She supports open borders that violate the civil rights of African Americans by giving their jobs to people here unlawfully. She supports trade policies that have closed factories in African American communities and put millions of African Americans and others, all of us, out of work.
So many people out of work. She supports radical regulations that puts Americans out of a job, and that raise the price of their So many people out of work. She supports radical regulations that puts Americans out of a job, and that raise the price of their energy bills -- you all see it -- beyond anything that you thought would ever, ever happen. She supports policies on crime that make communities less safe, and that make it harder to raise your children in security and in peace. You see it all the time. The inner cities, parents walking with their beautiful child, and they get shot. They're shot, their child is shot, often killed. Folks, what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? Donald Trump will fix it. We're going to make it better. We're going to help education. We're going to straighten out crime. We're going to create jobs. We're going to bring our companies back. What the hell do you have to lose? It can't get any worse than what it is right now. 

You know, I said this a few weeks ago and I mean it so deeply in my heart, we will fix it. We will get it fixed. They're never going to do it for you. It's words, it's politicians. You know what I always say about politicians? All talk, no action. They're controlled by their lobbyists and their special interests and their donors. Me, I put up my money. I'm into this thing for a lot of money, I want to tell you. Nobody's going to be calling me and asking for favors. We want to move a company to Mexico, please make sure it happens. Let me tell you, I'm going to make sure just the opposite. I'm going to make sure it doesn't happen. I believe every single parent in this country, and especially in the inner cities, has to right to raise their children in safety. Walk down the street in safety. Not be shot at. This is one of the great civil rights issues of our time. And people don't talk about it that way. This is a civil rights issue. The Democrats have run your inner cities. They're making a fortune for themselves, and they're destroying, they're destroying. Remember this. The people that live there, they are destroying those people. This is actually a civil rights issue. And it's a disgrace, and they should be ashamed of themselves. But Hillary Clinton doesn't want to talk about any of this. She can't defend her record. She's got a horrible record. And, as Bernie Sanders said, she's got very, very bad judgment. She really does. All you have to do is look at what she's done. She doesn't have one single proposal that hasn't been tried and failed. She doesn't have one idea that does anything but destroy jobs for African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans in our country. It's going to be a disaster. Her trade deals were a disaster. This will be catastrophic for our country.
So what does she do when she can't defend her record? That's right. She lies. She lies. And she smears. And she paints decent Americans, you, as racists. She bullies voters who only want a better future and tries to intimidate them out of voting for a change. I'm for change. She doesn't want change. As I discussed yesterday these are the same tactics, the establishment power is used to try to scare the British people out of voting for change also. It didn't work there, and it's not going to work here. Call me Mr. Brexit. The American people are ready to vote for freedom, opportunity and justice. They are ready to take back control of their own futures. You have to take it back. We will take it back. The movement will take it back together. It's time the Clintons were held accountable for their inappropriate conduct ...  Thank you. You can see the feeling in this country. You can see by this, by these outbursts, you can see the anger, the anger at what she got away with but maybe she won't get away with it. But you can see the anger when law enforcement allows her a free pass on something that was so bad. You can see the anger in this room. You can see the anger all over the country. Great, great institutions - the FBI, the Department of Justice - they've taken a hit in our country and throughout the world like nobody ever thought would be possible. Nobody. According to the book "Game Change," Bill Clinton shockingly said about President Barack Obama that a few years ago this guy would have been getting us coffee. That's what he said. And we've all seen the cringe-worthy comments from Hillary Clinton which I won't get into here but we know what they are. You've heard them. Here's the central point that I want to get across today. Hillary Clinton isn't just attacking me. She's attacking all of the decent people of all backgrounds - doesn't matter - of all backgrounds - who support this incredible once-in-a-lifetime movement. Never seen anything like it.  We can't let that stand. We can't. Voters used to the old game where failed politicians like Hillary who did lose to Barack Obama rather decisively - an election she was supposed to win easily - please don't forget that - where she falsely smears Republicans with the charges of racism and other things.
Republicans then always have a tendency to back down and be defensive and look bad. Not Donald Trump.  Democrats then continued to push policies that are devastating to communities of color and devastating to lots of other communities. We must break this corrupt cycle. We're going to. And we are going to break it beginning today in New Hampshire.  So let me make some very clear statements before this whole country, including all of those many cameras back there. First, on the border. The people of this country who want their laws enforced and respected -- respected by all, and who want their borders secured, are not racists. If you want to have strong borders so that people come into our country, but they come in legally through a legal process, that doesn't make you a racist. It makes you smart. It makes you an American.  They're all patriotic Americans.  We will build the wall 100 percent and Mexico will be paying for the wall. We will build it 100 percent.  I see all this stuff given out over the last three or four days by the media that Trump doesn't want to build the wall. Folks, we are building the wall. OK?  And remember this also, I have great respect for Mexico's leaders because frankly they're smarter, tougher and more cunning than ours. But remember this also, Mexico is making an absolute fortune dealing with the United States. Not only on the border, but with trade: a $60 billion trade deficit we have with Mexico. Remember what I say, Mexico will pay for the wall. Remember.  These are patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs protected, and their country kept safe. It's very simple. They want to have their country kept safe. I will never apologize for pledging to enforce and uphold every single law of the United States. We will uphold those laws for our people.  I will never apologize for making it my -- and this is, I will tell you -- for making it my priority, but is it your priority also? I think so.  So I will never apologize for making it my priority on immigration to protect American citizens above every other single consideration. We have to protect our people. We've lost sight of that.
We will end illegal immigration and we will restore the constitutional rule of law. It will be restored.  Next, on national security, people who speak out against radical Islam and who warn about refugees are not Islamophobes. They're not. They are decent American citizens who want to uphold our value as a tolerant society and who want to keep the terrorists' hell out of our country.  If the choice is between saving lives or appeasing politically correct censors in Washington, D.C., that is the easiest choice you and I will ever have to make.  We will always choose saving American lives.  We have thousands and thousands of people being brought into our country from the Middle East, from Syria. We don't know where they are or where they're coming from. They don't have paperwork. There's no reliable source that can vet these people. It could be the all- time great Trojan horse. Thousands -- and Hillary Clinton wants to increase that number by 550 percent a year.  Not going to happen, folks; not going to happen. Not on my watch, that I can tell you.  Now on crime. People who support the police and who want crime reduced and stopped are not prejudiced. They're concerned and loving citizens and parents whose heart breaks every time an innocent child is lost to totally preventable violence.  There is no compassion in tolerating crime, and poisonous drug dealing, and the killings all over our streets in so many different cities. I will work to dismantle the criminal gangs and cartels and to liberate our poorest citizens from crime and violence and poverty and fear.  To Hillary Clinton and her donors and advisers, pushing her to spread smears and her lies about decent people, I have three words. I want you to remember these three words: Shame on you.  When you're like the Clintons getting -- think of this one -- getting $69 million in political contributions from Wall Street and big banks -- and I think I got $16,000. You saw that?  And I don't know who the poor guy is that gave me the money, because he's not going to get anything for it. 
It's easy to look down on the so-called little people, which is the way she views the people of our country. It's easy to ignore the devastation caused by our open borders when you spend all of your time with wealthy donors and Hollywood celebrities who... 
It's easy to ignore the heartfelt concerns of communities about radical Islam entering our country when you spend your time hanging out with foreign dictators in their lavish palaces and homes. And it's easy, no doubt, for Hillary Clinton to turn a blind eye to the ravages of crime when she has her own personal armed security force. Now she wants to essentially dismantle our Second Amendment. I think the first thing she should do is call up Washington and immediately request that her great Secret Service agents drop all weapons. Let them walk around with no weapons. And let's see how she feels about that when she wants to take away your guns. But this is how the system is rigged. For decades the American people have demanded that their immigration laws be enforced, and that their jobs be protected from out of control immigration. But the special interests, who only want cheap labor, have stopped it from happening. They've totally stopped it. And they're putting up tremendous amounts of money. For years the American people have worried about letting radical Islam spread within our shores. But the elites, who only want to raise more money for global corporations, ignore the concerns of the American voters. Very simple. For 50 years, people living in our inner cities have suffered under the Democrats failed policy regime. In almost every case it's Democratic rule. But the Democratic politicians, who only want to please media executives and Wall Street donors, do nothing but expand the hurt and the suffering that our inner cities and our country is going through right now. It's time for a new day and a new dawn in America. On November 8 we will end the rule of special interests, and we will begin the rule of the people. I am asking for your vote so that we can break free from the failures of the past and create a new American future. I am asking for your vote so that we can achieve amazing things for the American people.
We can be greater than ever before. I am telling you we can be greater than ever before. And African-American citizens and Latino citizens will have the time of their life. Because we are going to create jobs like you've never seen. We're gonna bring our companies back, we're gonna bring our jobs back and we are not going to allow these companies to leave our country, fire all of their workers, make their product and sell it foolishly back into our country with no retribution. Believe me, those days are gone.  So I'm asking for the vote of every African-American and Hispanic-American who wants to see for the first time maybe ever a better future and a future that begins with jobs, jobs, jobs and also education, education, education. We are going to bring back great education for our inner cities and for our country. We will fix our disastrous trade deals and stand up to the countries that cheat, of which there are many. We will lower taxes and create millions of new jobs as a result. Companies will come pouring in. We will unleash an American energy revolution. We will eliminate job-killing regulations destroying our businesses.  We will repeal and replace the horrible disaster known as Obamacare.  We will enforce our immigration laws and we will put rules in place that hire American workers first. And that includes Hispanic workers, and that African-American workers.
We will end the era of nation-building. And instead work in partnership with our allies to crush and destroy ISIS.  We will keep radical Islamic terrorism out of our country. We will promote the values of tolerance, justice and acceptance. We will steadfastly reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its ugly forms. America will be one nation, united in common. We will have a nation the likes of which this world perhaps has never seen before.  We will have dreams, and they'll be common dreams. We will have a purpose. We have no purpose right now. Our citizens will proudly promote our values and our system of government as the best anywhere in the world and they will be proud of it and they will believe it - not just say it - believe it. And we will do so without apology.
Together we will make America prosperous again and wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make, very importantly, safe again. Friends, citizens and fellow Americans, we will make America great again, greater than ever before. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. 

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Wow, wow.  Thank you.  Thank you, everybody.  Unbelievable. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. I am thrilled to be back in Washington, state of Washington. Great, great, great people. Thank you very much.  Thank you. I want to thank -- I want to thank if I could because they worked so hard, and, you know, outside right now they have over 8,000 people trying to get in. And we set the record. I don't know how old this building is, but it's not brand new, and we set the record for attendance tonight. So I just want to thank you.  Thank you very much. So they're going to be pouring in as we speak unless you'd like me to come back in a half an hour and we'll start. No? No? All right. I want to thank Susan Hutchison who is in the audience some places and done a great job.  Brian Dansel -- where is Brian? Brian is over there some place. I want to thank Don Benton -- Senator Benton.  He has been amazing. He said, "You should come here. We'll fill that place up so fast." And he was right, so I want to thank Don and Doug Ericksen -- Senator Doug Ericksen, so I want to thank all of them. Amazing -- they've done an amazing job. We are going to work very hard over the next 70 days, and we're going to win the state, and we're going to win the White House.  We are going to take back the White House.  You know a Republican would never come to the state of Washington, and you know on television they said, "I wonder why he's going to the state of Washington," because you know what, Republicans aren't winning, but we're going to win it that's why I'm here.  That's why I'm here.  And this love affair began about three months ago when I came up here, and we set record crowds, two events, massive, massive crowds. And I said, "Why don't the Republicans win that state? I think we're going to win Washington State," so that's . That's why I'm here. That's why I'm here. And I don't know if you saw it, but poll numbers came in today that are phenomenal. We're leading in Florida. We're leading in North Carolina.  We're leading on a national basis in some of the polls. Los Angeles Times, we're two or three points up. We're doing really well. Folks, I'll tell you what it's all coming together. And when you see crowds like this, people fully understand why. I will tell you that.  Thank you. So, we are going to have a great victory for the people -- people. Remember, for the people.  It's going to be a victory for every citizen whose voice has not been heard, and that's a lot of people.  It will be a win for the voters, not the pundits, not the journalists... ...not the lobbyists, not the global special interest that take care of these politicians and get whatever they want. And they are the ones that are funding my opponent's campaign -- millions and millions and millions of dollars, and they have total control over crooked Hillary Clinton, believe me. Total control. This is going to be your victory. It's going to be your victory. It's going to be your victory.  We're going to create the new American future our children so desperately deserve.  In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the workforce. They've been taken out of -- they are going to return and they're going to return quickly, believe me.  Crumbling roads, and bridges, and airports will be replaced with the infrastructure our country needs and deserves. Our infrastructure is going to hell. Frankly, I hate to say it, our country is going to hell, and we're not going to let it happen.  Families trapped in welfare will be provided with jobs and opportunity. Government will become lean and mean except -- except it will have a big fat beautiful heart.  We will have an effective government, a responsible and honest government for a change.  Our border will be protected. Our children will be safe.  People don't talk about the inner-cities, but I'm talking about the inner-cities. They don't talk about the inner-cities. The Democrats have taken advantage of African-Americans. They take their vote. They win the election, and then they say, see you in four years. Thanks a lot. Not me. We will rebuild our inner-cities and provide safety and peace to all of our citizens.  American values and culture will be cherished and celebrated once again, but to achieve this future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past of which there have been many and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies because they are lies, and I know these people well, believe me. One area where honesty is badly needed is on the subject of economic and living conditions for African-American citizens in the United States.   Thank you. And thank you to law enforcement and our police. Thank you.  Millions of African-Americans in this country have succeeded greatly and their contributions to every area of our life and now -- and they have done so much. And now throughout history, we should celebrate and cherish that success. But -- but this includes tremendous, tremendous and amazing achievements in art, science, sports, music, business, et cetera. It includes millions of African- American entrepreneurs, innovators, and the millions of African- American workers in our middle class. But -- but we must also talk about those who have been left behind, the millions suffering in disastrous conditions in so many of our inner-cities and neighborhoods afflicted by total poverty, drugs, and horrible, horrible violence that we watch every single night. Every single night, you turn on the news and you see the violence and it's horrible. No group in America has been more harmed by Hillary Clinton's policies and the policies of Democrats who have run our inner-cities for literally 50, 70, 80, 90, even 100 years. Nobody has been hurt more than African-Americans.  There is no better evidence of the fact that Hillary Clinton's immigration policy, which brings in illegal immigrants and -- well, that is a true statement. It brings in illegal immigrants and refugees to take jobs from our hardworking African-American and Hispanic citizens and they want those jobs. Instead of providing free health care and jobs to millions of refugees from around the world that we have no idea even where they come from, we should rebuild our inner-cities and provide jobs to struggling Americans that have been struggling for years and years.  Thank you. Tonight I'm asking for the vote of every African- American and Hispanic citizen in this country who wants to see a better future, who wants to see real positive change.  The inner-cities of our country have been run by the Democratic machine for so long. These democratic policies, the policies of Hillary Clinton...  These democratic policies, the policies of Hillary Clinton have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, broken homes, and rising crime. And it's only getting worse. They don't care about you, remember that. They don't care about you. They want your vote, and they don't care. They have used you for decades and decades and decades, and they will continue to use you. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. Think of that. Four in 10 are living in poverty. This includes 45 percent of children under the age of six. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Meanwhile, another two million Hispanic-Americans have been added to the ranks of those in poverty since 2009 -- not a long time ago. In Detroit, half of all its residents do not work -- half. In Milwaukee, where I just left, almost four in 10 African-American men between the ages of 24 and 54 do not have a job. Here in the state of Washington, 65 percent of Latino children and 60 percent of African-American children live in low income households. Chicago just had the most violent month in 20 years. More than 2,800 people have been shot in Chicago since just the beginning of the year. You look at war-torn countries are safer than living in our inner-cities by a lot. It's not even close. It breaks everybody's heart. We cannot let this violence continue. We can't let it happen.  It will and it must be ended. Under a Trump administration, it will indeed end.  It will be my priority to work with communities, local police, state police, and federal law enforcement to dismantle the gangs and to liberate our citizens from violence, and poverty, and fear.  I will appoint the best judges, and prosecutors, and federal investigators who will make this their personal mission, and so many people want to do that.  There is one thing which can no longer be denied. If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same horrible results. Remember that.  And Hillary Clinton has been doing this stuff for 35 years and nothing's happened. Just remember, nothing's happened. To those suffering I say, "What do you have to lose by voting for Donald Trump?"  I will fix it. I will fix it. I will fight for you as no one ever has before. They don't fight for you. They don't fight for you.  Let me also tell you what you have to gain -- jobs, opportunity, security, safety, great education, and many other things -- many, many other things.  Thank you. This means very much and just so much to me. I believe every child in this country in Detroit, in Baltimore, in Chicago has the right to live out their lives in safety and in peace.  In the Wall Street Journal today, Heather Mac Donald of Manhattan and the Manhattan Institute just wrote an important article about the soaring crime and it is soaring like you've never seen before in our inner-cities. And the responsibility of Democratic politicians for creating this horrible problem -- big article, highly, highly respected person. The article is called "Black Lives Matter to Donald Trump."  True, true. She writes that, "Mr. Trump's call to restore law and order recognizes the right of inner-city residents to enjoy the same freedom from fear that the rest of America now really takes for granted." Freedom from violence is one of the greatest civil rights of our time, so too is the issue of school choice. What a difference it will make.  What a difference it will make. We will fight for the right of parents to send their kids to the school that they believe gives their kids the best shot at success.  I will not accept and neither will you a future in which children -- and think of this -- children of color, any color in this country are not fully included in the American dream.  Our whole country loses when we leave millions of talented aspiring Americans on the sideline, which is happening all of the time. We want to give everyone a chance to contribute their full talents to our economy and to the greatness of our country.  Remember -- and most people don't know this -- the Republican Party is the -- right, you know what I'm going to say.  Right? The Republican Party is the party of Abraham Lincoln.  Not bad, not bad. It's also the party of freedom, equality, and opportunity. People have forgotten it so long now it is the Democratic Party that is the party of slavery, the party of Jim Crow, and the party of opposition. By the way, is there any place better to be than a Trump rally, right, any place?   Nothing makes me more honored and proud than to be the nominee of Abraham Lincoln's Republican Party, and we're going to do our job.  Our Party will fight to bring hope to every forgotten stretch of this country. Once again, we will be one American nation -- one American nation.  We will be one united people, and we will have one really great future again, believe me.  And a great future will be built on these three critical words -- jobs, jobs, jobs.  This will include a complete revitalization of our manufacturing sector, which has been absolutely so badly hurt by Hillary Clinton's policies -- so badly hurt, devastated. We're bringing jobs back to our country. We're not going to let people take our jobs anymore. We're not going to let our jobs go to other countries anymore.  There will be retribution. There will be a price to pay.  We are going to renegotiate the horrible NAFTA trade deal probably the worst deal ever made in terms of trade.  And we're going to keep out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a total disaster. And we're going to stand up to China and fight for every last American job. We're not going to be ripped off any longer.   Thank you. The destruction that NAFTA started will be finished off if the Trans-Pacific Partnership is approved. It is a disaster -- a disaster for our country, a disaster for our workers. We won't let it happen. We cannot let it happen.  These are very, very quiet protesters, I will say.  I will say one thing, when Bernie Sanders had his protesters out, they had a lot more energy. They really do.  Much better, they were much better. They felt it a little bit deeper in the heart. But that's just the beginning of what we're going to do for the American worker. On taxes, we're going to provide massive tax relief to all working people and lower the tax rate...  ...on small business from 35 percent to 15 percent. Low and middle income parents will also be able to fully deduct the average cost of child care from their taxes -- a very important thing.  On horrible, horrible regulations which are taking over our country, I am going to direct every agency and department head in my government to identify all needless and job-killing regulations and they will be removed.  We will have a temporary moratorium on new regulations to allow our economy to grow. I mean, our economy is a disaster to allow our economy to grow. Economic growth for last quarter has been revised downward to 1.1 percent, a number that you can't even imagine. Just so you know, if China goes to seven or eight percent, it's almost like a national catastrophe. And what they do is they devalue their currency. They do lots of other things and they suck more blood out of our country, and we allow them to do it, folks. And they get back on track, and we keep going down. Not any longer. And believe me, we have the cards. They don't. We have the cards.  We have all the cards. Meanwhile, our trade deficit in goods with the world is now nearly $800 billion. Think of that. Almost $800 billion trade deficit for the year. You really say to yourself, who negotiates these deals? I know, I know, political hacks and politicians negotiate them. No longer.  We will further bring back our jobs by unleashing an American energy revolution, lifting restrictions on oil, and coal, and natural gas, and all sources of American energy.  This will create millions of jobs and lower the price of energy and your electric bill and every other bill for the American household. We're also going to secure our border and stop the drugs from pouring in and destroying our country.  And I'll be talking about that tomorrow night in Arizona, big speech on immigration. We'll be talking about that, Arizona tomorrow night.  The Seattle area recently experienced the largest number of heroin-related deaths -- think of it -- in 20 years -- the largest number in 20 years. It's getting worse. It's getting horrific. And not only heroin, they have drugs now pouring across the border that most people have never even heard of. We have to stop the drugs from poisoning our youth and poisoning our community.  Additionally, we are going to stop the Syrian refugees from entering the United States, and instead build a safe zone overseas.  Amazingly, Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country. So, I thought I'd maybe do this if you'd like. You know, we talk about Syrian refugees, we talk about refugees, we talk about some people hate our values, hate our country. And I took something that was a song by Al Wilson, The Snake. Has anybody heard The Snake?  Should I do it or not?  Are you sure? Yes? All right. So this really has to do with people coming into our country that can't be properly vetted. We have no idea where they're coming from. There's no paper work. You know, our government says you have paper work. There's no paper work. And I believe in safe zones and we have to help people out, and we have to have other people. You know, we're almost up to $20 trillion in debt, so we have to have other people like the Gulf States . It's called "other people's money," but I believe very much that we have to help and we'll build safe zones over in Syria and we'll help the people. We have to do that.  But if you look at what happens on a daily basis in Germany, what she's done to that country is unbelievable. If you look at what's happening in France, it's no longer friends. Friends of mine that used to love to go to Paris, they say we're not going to Paris anymore, it's no longer Paris. You see what's happening in different countries and you see what's happening in our own country whether it's Orlando or whether it's San Bernardino or whether it's any one of many different places. And I read this and I said it's so . It wasn't drawn for that reason, but I said this really represents what it is when we allow people to pull into our country, we don't know who they are, but we know -- we just know bad things are going to happen. It's only a question of when bad, bad things are going to happen. So, I'm going to read this to you. It's called The Snake.  And a lot of people like it because it represents the truth. It represents what's going to be happening. This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. Did you see today where they announced tens of thousands of people coming in, and we have no idea even where they're being relocated? So, on her way to work one morning, down the path, along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. "Oh, well," she cried, "I'll take you in and I'll take care of you." "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and had laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been revived. "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom, "You're so beautiful," she cried. "But if I hadn't brought you in by now you simply would have died." Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. "Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman," sighed the vicious snake. "I saved you," cried the woman, "and you bit me. Heavens, why? You know, your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die." "Oh, shut up, silly woman..."   ...said the reptile with a grin. "You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in."  Get ready, folks. It's not going to be pretty, going to be a bad deal going on -- bad, bad deal. And I just thought that was very representative of what's going to be happening -- not good. Remember I said, now if on November 8th you go and you vote for Donald Trump for president, you can forget about it because it's not going to happen. We're not taking them in. We're not taking them in.   Thank you. Thank you very much. Another major issue on this race is foreign policy. Hillary Clinton has made one bad foreign policy decision after another, beginning with the support for going into the war in Iraq in the first place, which, by the way, I opposed.  Her tenure as secretary of State may be regarded as the most disastrous such tenure in United States history. She was horrible -- horrible. Look at the world before and after she became secretary of State. Pre Hillary, in early 2009, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. The group we now know as ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked by sanctions, right, right? Now, fast forward to the present time after Hillary, here is what it looks like. Iraq is in total chaos. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war and a refugee crisis that now threatens Europe and the United States. ISIS has been unleashed onto the world viciously. Iran, the world's top state-sponsor of terrorism has been put on a pass to nuclear weapons and was given a $400 million cash ransom payment. And that's not to mention the $150 billion that they're getting back. This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton -- death, destruction, terrorism, and weakness. America deserves a better legacy.  All of you deserve a better future and a country that runs so much smarter.  I am the change agent. This is a movement. No matter where we go anywhere in this country, we have crowds like this. We have people that love our country. They want to see our country heal. They want to see our country be smart. They want to see our country get better.  Hillary Clinton is a defender of the status quo. While our country lost badly under Hillary Clinton, she cashed in big time -- made a lot of money. Bill Clinton speaking fee surged. While Hillary was secretary of State, Bill was paid almost $50 million for speeches during her tenure and increased a 44 percent over the previous years. Then there was all of the money funneled into the Clinton Foundation from foreign governments and corporations. It was pure and simple pay-for-play. Just look at what she did with UBS, the big banking concern, or Russian uranium. A disaster relief in Haiti -- Haiti has been a catastrophe, and the money that was spent and the money that was missing -- unbelievable -- and so many other examples. But the only way to learn the full depth of her public corruption is to read the 33,000 emails that she deleted. They're gone.   It's very sad. And not only deleted, folks, this was after -- this was after she was subpoenaed by Congress to produce. And not only that, she bleached with somebody said they never even heard of, in a very expensive fashion, used chemical so that nobody will ever be able to see them. Who does this? Who does this? Hillary Clinton said under oath that she turned over all of her work-related emails. But we now know that is just one more Clinton lie. The FBI found thousands of work-related emails she never turned over, and then another 15,000 emails were just discovered a few weeks ago. Now today another 30 emails were discovered by the State Department that Hillary Clinton failed to turn over. These were emails about Benghazi. It just never ends with the Clintons. There's only one way to get justice in this totally rigged system, and it's a rigged system when they did nothing about the crimes that she committed. It's a rigged system. Remember that.  The only justice we're going to get is a tremendous victory for everybody in this room and this nation on November 8th -- a big, big vote.   Thank you. Thank you. In a Trump administration, the State Department will work for the country not for Hillary Clinton's donors and special interest.  Under Hillary Clinton, it's the powerful protecting the powerful -- politicians defending politicians, insiders fighting for insiders. I am fighting for you. That I can tell you, I am fighting for you.  The government will work for citizens once again. The era of division will be replaced with a future of total unity. We'll love each other as a country again.  We're going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common. We will proudly promote our culture as Americans, the best anywhere in the world. It's time to break with the failures of the past and fight for every last child in this country to have a better future and a future that they deserve.  So this is the change that I'm promising all of you -- an honest government, a thriving economy, a just society for each and every American, and jobs -- lots of jobs.  I am asking for your vote so I can be your champion in the White House.  Together, we will make America wealthy again.  Together, we will make America strong again.  We will fix our depleted military and we will take care of our vets.  We will appoint the proper judges to the United States Supreme Court.  We will protect and save our beautiful Second Amendment.  We will repeal and replace the horror known as Obamacare.  We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again. God bless you. Good night. Thank you. 

Wow. Thank you. That's a lot of people, Phoenix, that's a lot of people.  Thank you very much. Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona.  The state that has a very, very special place in my heart. I love people of Arizona and together we are going to win the White House in November.  Now, you know this is where it all began for me. Remember that massive crowd also. So, I said let's go and have some fun tonight. We're going to Arizona, OK? This will be a little bit different. This won't be a rally speech, per se. Instead, I'm going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of the greatest challenges facing our country today, illegal immigration.  I've just landed having returned from a very important and special meeting with the President of Mexico, a man I like and respect very much. And a man who truly loves his country, Mexico. And, by the way, just like I am a man who loves my country, the United States.  We agree on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns, and people across our border, and to put the cartels out of business.  We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American citizens to our two countries, my love for the people of Mexico, and the leadership and friendship between Mexico and the United States. It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation and it will go on for awhile. And, in the end we're all going to win. Both countries, we're all going to win.
This is the first of what I expect will be many, many conversations. And, in a Trump administration we're going to go about creating a new relationship between our two countries, but it's going to be a fair relationship. We want fairness.  But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership in Washington and we must change it quickly. Sadly, sadly there is no other way. The truth is our immigration system is worse than anybody ever realized. But the facts aren't known because the media won't report on them. The politicians won't talk about them and the special interests spend a lot of money trying to cover them up because they are making an absolute fortune. That's the way it is. Today, on a very complicated and very difficult subject, you will get the truth. The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists and powerful, powerful politicians. It's all you can do. Thank you. Thank you.  Let me tell you who it does not serve. It does not serve you the American people. Doesn't serve you. When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean the following, amnesty, open borders, lower wages. Immigration reform should mean something else entirely. It should mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for American citizens.  Thank you. But if we're going to make our immigration system work, then we have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these important and very sensitive issues. For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people, our forgotten working people, have over the record pace of immigration and it's impact on their jobs, wages, housing, schools, tax bills and general living conditions. These are valid concerns expressed by decent and patriotic citizens from all backgrounds, all over. We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. Sometimes it's just not going to work out. It's our right, as a sovereign nation to chose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish and love us.  Then there is the issue of security. Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws like they have to be enforced. I have met with many of the great parents who lost their children to sanctuary cities and open borders. So many people, so many, many people. So sad. They will be joining me on this stage in a little while and I look forward to introducing, these are amazing, amazing people. Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration and the administration that causes this horrible, horrible thought process, called Hillary Clinton.
This includes incredible Americans like 21 year old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered Federal custody and then was released into the U.S., think of it, into the U.S. community under the policies of the White House Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. Weak, weak policies. Weak and foolish policies. He was released again after the crime, and now he's out there at large. Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top student in her class one day before her death. Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open-border policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk and a really good guy from Mesa, Arizona. A lot of you have known about Grant. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary, who had also been released from federal custody, and they knew it was going to happen again. Another victim is Kate Steinle. Gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco, by an illegal immigrant, deported five previous times. And they knew he was no good. Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home, 90 years old and defenseless. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long, who did not meet Obama administration standards for removal. And they knew it was going to happen. In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, a great woman, according to everybody that knew her, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never, ever deported, despite the fact that everybody wanted him out. A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens, in our prisons and jails together, had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names, 25,000. On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion a year. And this is what we get. For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next 10 years, we could provide 1 million at-risk students with a school voucher, which so many people are wanting. While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good people, many, many, this doesn't change the fact that most illegal immigrants are lower skilled workers with less education, who compete directly against vulnerable American workers, and that these illegal workers draw much more out from the system than they can ever possibly pay back. And they're hurting a lot of our people that cannot get jobs under any circumstances. But these facts are never reported. Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing and only one thing, the needs of people living here illegally. In many cases, by the way, they're treated better than our vets. Not going to happen anymore, folks. November 8th. Not going to happen anymore. 

The truth is, the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million illegal immigrants or however many there may be -- and honestly we've been hearing that number for years. It's always 11 million. Our government has no idea. It could be 3 million. It could be 30 million. They have no idea what the number is. Frankly our government has no idea what they're doing on many, many fronts, folks.  But whatever the number, that's never really been the central issue. It will never be a central issue. It doesn't matter from that standpoint. Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington.  Only the out of touch media elites think the biggest problems facing America -- you know this, this is what they talk about, facing American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants who don't have legal status. And, they also think the biggest thing, and you know this, it's not nuclear, and it's not ISIS, it's not Russia, it's not China, it's global warming. To all the politicians, donors, and special interests, hear these words from me and all of you today. There is only one core issue in the immigration debate, and that issue is the well being of the American people.  Nothing even comes a close second. Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears that families will be separated, but she's not talking about the American families who have been permanently separated from their loved ones because of a preventable homicide, because of a preventable death, because of murder. No, she's only talking about families who come here in violation of the law. We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with great dignity. So important. We will be fair, just, and compassionate to all, but our greatest compassion must be for our American citizens.  Thank you. President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open borders, and you know it better than anybody right here in Arizona. You know it. President Obama and Hillary Clinton support sanctuary cities. They support catch and release on the border. they support visa overstays. They support the release of dangerous, dangerous, dangerous, criminals from detention. And, they support unconstitutional executive amnesty. Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security, and Medicare for illegal immigrants, breaking the federal budget. On top of that she promises uncontrolled, low-skilled immigration that continues to reduce jobs and wages for American workers, and especially for African-American and Hispanic workers within our country. Our citizens.
Most incredibly, because to me this is unbelievable, we have no idea who these people are, where they come from. I always say Trojan Horse. Watch what's going to happen, folks. It's not going to be pretty. This includes her plan to bring in 620,000 new refugees from Syria and that region over a short period of time. And even yesterday, when you were watching the news, you saw thousands and thousands of people coming in from Syria. What is wrong with our politicians, our leaders if we can call them that. What the hell are we doing?  Hard to believe. Hard to believe. Now that you've heard about Hillary Clinton's plan, about which she has not answered a single question, let me tell you about my plan. And do you notice --  And do you notice all the time for weeks and weeks of debating my plan, debating, talking about it, what about this, what about that. They never even mentioned her plan on immigration because she doesn't want to get into the quagmire. It's a tough one, she doesn't know what she's doing except open borders and let everybody come in and destroy our country by the way.  While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan was crafted with the input from Federal Immigration offices, very great people. Among the top immigration experts anywhere in this country, who represent workers, not corporations, very important to us. I also worked with lawmakers, who've led on this issue on behalf of American citizens for many years. And most importantly I've met with the people directly impacted by these policies. So important. Number one, are you ready? Are you ready?  We will build a great wall along the southern border.  And Mexico will pay for the wall.  One hundred percent. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for it. And they're great people and great leaders but they're going to pay for the wall. On day one, we will begin working on intangible, physical, tall, power, beautiful southern border wall.  We will use the best technology, including above and below ground sensors that's the tunnels. Remember that, above and below.  Above and below ground sensors. Towers, aerial surveillance and manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels and keep out criminal cartels and Mexico you know that, will work with us. I really believe it. Mexico will work with us. I absolutely believe it. And especially after meeting with their wonderful, wonderful president today. I really believe they want to solve this problem along with us, and I'm sure they will.  Number two, we are going to end catch and release. We catch them, oh go ahead. We catch them, go ahead.  Under my administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border will be detained until they are removed out of our country and back to the country from which they came. 
And they'll be brought great distances. We're not dropping them right across. They learned that. President Eisenhower. They'd drop them across, right across, and they'd come back. And across. Then when they flew them to a long distance, all of a sudden that was the end. We will take them great distances. But we will take them to the country where they came from, OK? Number three. Number three, this is the one, I think it's so great. It's hard to believe, people don't even talk about it. Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. Zero. Zero. 
Zero. They don't come in here. They don't come in here. According to federal data, there are at least 2 million, 2 million, think of it, criminal aliens now inside of our country, 2 million people criminal aliens. We will begin moving them out day one. As soon as I take office. Day one. In joint operation with local, state, and federal law enforcement. Now, just so you understand, the police, who we all respect -- say hello to the police. Boy, they don't get the credit they deserve. I can tell you. They're great people. But the police and law enforcement, they know who these people are. They live with these people. They get mocked by these people. They can't do anything about these people, and they want to. They know who these people are. Day one, my first hour in office, those people are gone. 
And you can call it deported if you want. The press doesn't like that term. You can call it whatever the hell you want. They're gone. Beyond the 2 million, and there are vast numbers of additional criminal illegal immigrants who have fled, but their days have run out in this country. The crime will stop. They're going to be gone. It will be over. 
They're going out. They're going out fast. Moving forward. We will issue detainers for illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime whatsoever, and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings if we even have to do that. We will terminate the Obama administration's deadly, and it is deadly, non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets, walk around, do whatever they want to do, crime all over the place. That's over. That's over, folks. That's over. Since 2013 alone, the Obama administration has allowed 300,000 criminal aliens to return back into United States communities. These are individuals encountered or identified by ICE, but who were not detained or processed for deportation because it wouldn't have been politically correct. My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions to remove criminal aliens immediately. We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities Program. Good program. We will expand and revitalize the popular 287 partnerships, which will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens in local jails that we don't even know about.
Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted by this administration. And those were programs that worked. This is yet one more area where we are headed in a totally opposite direction. There's no common sense, there's no brain power in our administration by our leader, or our leaders. None, none, none. On my first day in office I am also going to ask Congress to pass Kate's Law, named for Kate Steinle.  To ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal reentry receive strong mandatory minimum sentences. Strong. And then we get them out. Another reform I'm proposing is the passage of legislation named for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, to law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously deported illegal immigrant. The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants and terrorists are swiftly, really swiftly, identified and removed. And they will go face, believe me. They're going to go. We're going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers.  Within ICE I am going to create a new special deportation task force focused on identifying and quickly removing the most dangerous criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice just like Hillary Clinton has evaded justice, OK?  Maybe they'll be able to deport her.  The local police who know every one of these criminals, and they know each and every one by name, by crime, where they live, they will work so fast. And our local police will be so happy that they don't have to be abused by these thugs anymore. There's no great mystery to it, they've put up with it for years, and no finally we will turn the tables and law enforcement and our police will be allowed to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess. We're also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents.  Who gave me their endorsement, 16,500 gave me their endorsement. And put more of them on the border instead of behind desks which is good. We will expand the number of border patrol stations significantly. I've had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement officers, and I want to take a moment to thank them. What they do is incredible.  And getting their endorsement means so much to me. More to me really than I can say. Means so much. First time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate. Number four, block funding for sanctuary cities. We block the funding. No more funds.  We will end the sanctuary cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist federal authorities.
Number five, cancel unconstitutional executive orders and enforce all immigration laws.  We will immediately terminate President Obama's two illegal executive amnesties in which he defied federal law and the Constitution to give amnesty to approximately five million illegal immigrants, five million. 
And how about all the millions that are waiting on line, going through the process legally? So unfair. Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty programs, including the 2014 amnesty which has been blocked by the United States Supreme Court. Great. Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive amnesty. And by the way, folks, she will be a disaster for our country, a disaster in so many other ways. And don't forget the Supreme Court of the United States. Don't forget that when you go to vote on November 8. And don't forget your Second Amendment. And don't forget the repeal and replacement of Obamacare.  And don't forget building up our depleted military. And don't forget taking care of our vets. Don't forget our vets. They have been forgotten.  Clinton's plan would trigger a constitutional crisis unlike almost anything we have ever seen before. In effect, she would be abolishing the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws from the Oval Office. And you see what bad judgment she has. She has seriously bad judgment. 
Can you imagine? In a Trump administration all immigration laws will be enforced, will be enforced. As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities. But unlike this administration, no one will be immune or exempt from enforcement. And ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed to do their jobs the way their jobs are supposed to be done.  Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation. That is what it means to have laws and to have a country. Otherwise we don't have a country. Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges. That is those relying on public welfare or straining the safety net along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who've come here under this current corrupt administration.  Number six, we are going to suspend the issuance of visas to any place where adequate screening cannot occur.  According to data provided by the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, and the national interest between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at least 380 foreign born individuals were convicted in terror cases inside the United States. And even right now the largest number of people are under investigation for exactly this that we've ever had in the history of our country. Our country is a mess. We don't even know what to look for anymore, folks. Our country has to straighten out. And we have to straighten out fast. The number is likely higher. But the administration refuses to provide this information, even to Congress. As soon as I enter office I am going to ask the Department of State, which has been brutalized by Hillary Clinton, brutalized. 
Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put in place. I call it extreme vetting right? Extreme vetting. I want extreme. It's going to be so tough, and if somebody comes in that's fine but they're going to be good. It's extreme. And if people don't like it, we've got have a country folks. Got to have a country. Countries in which immigration will be suspended would include places like Syria and Libya. And we are going to stop the tens of thousands of people coming in from Syria. We have no idea who they are, where they come from. There's no documentation. There's no paperwork. It's going to end badly folks. It's going to end very, very badly. For the price of resettling, one refugee in the United States, 12 could be resettled in a safe zone in their home region. Which I agree with 100 percent. We have to build safe zones and we'll get the money from Gulf states. We don't want to put up the money. We owe almost $20 trillion. Doubled since Obama took office, our national debt. But we will get the money from Gulf states and others. We'll supervise it. We'll build safe zones which is something that I think all of us want to see. Another reform, involves new screening tests for all applicants that include, and this is so important, especially if you get the right people. And we will get the right people. An ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values and love our people.  Thank you. We're very proud of our country. Aren't we? Really? With all it's going through, we're very proud of our country. For instance, in the last five years, we've admitted nearly 100,000 immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan. And these two countries according to Pew Research, a majority of residents say that the barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or sometimes justified. That's what they say.  That's what they say. They're justified. Right? And we're admitting them to our country. Applicants will be asked their views about honor killings, about respect for women and gays and minorities. Attitudes on radical Islam, which our President refuses to say and many other topics as part of this vetting procedure. And if we have the right people doing it, believe me, very, very few will slip through the cracks. Hopefully, none.  Number seven, we will insure that other countries take their people back when they order them deported.  There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people back after they've been ordered to leave the United States. Including large numbers of violent criminals, they won't take them back. So we say, OK, we'll keep them. Not going to happen with me, not going to happen with me.  Due to a Supreme Court decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law enforcement officers have to release them into your communities.  And by the way, the results are horrific, horrific. There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick's tragic death in Connecticut just last year. Yet despite the existence of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas to these countries.
Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance. And, they would comply if we would act properly. In other words, if we had leaders that knew what they were doing, which we don't. The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands and thousands of dangerous criminal aliens who should have been sent home to their countries. Instead we have them all over the place. Probably a couple in this room as a matter of fact, but I hope not. According to a report for the Boston Globe from the year 2008 to 2014 nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into U.S. communities because their home countries would not, under any circumstances, take them back. Hard to believe with the power we have. Hard to believe. We're like the big bully that keeps getting beat up. You ever see that? The big bully that keeps getting beat up. These 13,000 release occurred on Hillary Clinton's watch. She had the power and the duty to stop it cold, and she decided she would not do it. And, Arizona knows better than most exactly what I'm talking about.  Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual assaults, and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable. The Boston Globe writes that a Globe review of 323 criminals released in New England from 2008 to 2012 found that as many as 30 percent committed new offenses, including rape, attempted murder, and child molestation. We take them, we take them. Number eight, we will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system which we need desperately. For years Congress has required biometric entry-exit visa tracking systems, but it has never been completed. The politicians are all talk, no action, never happens. Never happens. Hillary Clinton, all talk. Unfortunately when there is action it's always the wrong decision. You ever notice? In my administration we will ensure that this system is in place. And, I will tell you, it will be on land, it will be on sea, it will be in air. We will have a proper tracking system. Approximately half of new illegal immigrants came on temporary visas and then never, ever left. Why should the? Nobody's telling them to leave. Stay as long as you want, we'll take care of you. Beyond violating our laws, visa overstays, pose -- and they really are a big problem, pose a substantial threat to national security. The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking system would be a high priority and would have assisted law enforcement and intelligence officials in august and September in 2001 in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in the United States expired visas. And, you know what that would have meant, what that could have meant. Wouldn't that have been wonderful, right? What that could have meant? Last year alone nearly half a million individuals overstayed their temporary visas. Removing these overstays will be a top priority of my administration.  If people around the world believe they can just come on a temporary visa and never, ever leave, the Obama-Clinton policy, that's what it is, then we have a completely open border, and we no longer have a country. We must send a message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced. Number nine, we will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet.
We will ensure that E-Verify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law, and we will work with Congress to strengthen and expand its use across the country. Immigration law doesn't exist for the purpose of keeping criminals out. It exists to protect all aspects of American life. The work site, the welfare office, the education system, and everything else. That is why immigration limits are established in the first place. If we only enforced the laws against crime, then we have an open border to the entire world. We will enforce all of our immigration laws.  And the same goes for government benefits. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that 62 percent of households headed by illegal immigrants use some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs like food stamps or housing assistance. Tremendous costs, by the way, to our country. Tremendous costs. This directly violates the federal public charge law designed to protect the United States Treasury. Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for immediate removal.  Number 10, we will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our workers. And by the way, and by the way, we're going to make great trade deals. We're going to renegotiate trade deals. We're going to bring our jobs back home. We're going to bring our jobs back home. We have the most incompetently worked trade deals ever negotiated probably in the history of the world, and that starts with NAFTA. And now they want to go TPP, one of the great disasters. We're going to bring our jobs back home. And if companies want to leave Arizona and if they want to leave other states, there's going to be a lot of trouble for them. It's not going to be so easy. There will be consequence. Remember that. There will be consequence. They're not going to be leaving, go to another country, make the product, sell it into the United States, and all we end up with is no taxes and total unemployment. It's not going to happen. There will be consequences.  We've admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between 1965 and 2015. Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. So true. But we now have an obligation to them and to their children to control future immigration as we are following, if you think, previous immigration waves. We've had some big waves. And tremendously positive things have happened. Incredible things have happened. To ensure assimilation we want to ensure that it works. Assimilation, an important word. Integration and upward mobility.  Within just a few years immigration as a share of national population is set to break all historical records. The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve the following goals. To keep immigration levels measured by population share within historical norms. To select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S. society and their ability to be financially self- sufficient.  We take anybody. Come on in, anybody. Just come on in. Not anymore. You know, folks, it's called a two-way street. It is a two-way street, right? We need a system that serves our needs, not the needs of others. Remember, under a Trump administration it's called America first. Remember that.
To choose immigrants based on merit. Merit, skill, and proficiency. Doesn't that sound nice? And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first. And that in particular African- American and Latino workers who are being shut out in this process so unfairly.  And Hillary Clinton is going to do nothing for the African- American worker, the Latino worker. She's going to do nothing. Give me your vote, she says, on November eighth. And then she'll say, so long, see you in four years. That's what it is. She is going to do nothing. And just look at the past. She's done nothing. She's been there for 35 years. She's done nothing. And I say what do you have to lose? Choose me. Watch how good we're going to do together. Watch.  You watch. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come into our country legally and properly vetted, and in a manner that serves the national interest. We've been living under outdated immigration rules from decades ago. They're decades and decades old. To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them to bring them up to date. They're archaic. They're ancient. We wouldn't put our entire federal budget on auto pilot for decades, so why should we do the same for the very, very complex subject of immigration? So let's now talk about the big picture. These 10 steps, if rigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished on this issue in the last 50 years. It's going to happen, folks. Because I am proudly not a politician, because I am not behold to any special interest, I've spent a lot of money on my campaign, I'll tell you. I write those checks. Nobody owns Trump. I will get this done for you and for your family. We'll do it right. You'll be proud of our country again. We'll do it right. We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above. And, when we do, peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail. Crime will go down. Border crossings will plummet. Gangs will disappear. And the gangs are all over the place. And welfare use will decrease. We will have a peace dividend to spend on rebuilding America, beginning with our American inner cities. We're going to rebuild them, for once and for all. For those here illegally today, who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only. To return home and apply for reentry like everybody else, under the rules of the new legal immigration system that I have outlined above. Those who have left to seek entry --

Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. Those who have left to seek entry under this new system -- and it will be an efficient system -- will not be awarded surplus visas, but will have to apply for entry under the immigration caps or limits that will be established in the future.
We will break the cycle of amnesty and illegal immigration. We will break the cycle. There will be no amnesty.  Our message to the world will be this. You cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country. Can't do it.  This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings and illegal overstays, very importantly. People will know that you can't just smuggle in, hunker down and wait to be legalized. It's not going to work that way. Those days are over.  Importantly, in several years when we have accomplished all of our enforcement and deportation goals and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the construction of a great wall, which we will have built in record time. And at a reasonable cost, which you never hear from the government.  And the establishment of our new lawful immigration system then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those individuals who remain. That discussion can take place only in an atmosphere in which illegal immigration is a memory of the past, no longer with us, allowing us to weigh the different options available based on the new circumstances at the time.  Right now, however, we're in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border crisis and a terrorism crisis like never before. All energies of the federal government and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this time, immigration security. Cut it off. Whether it's dangerous materials being smuggled across the border, terrorists entering on visas or Americans losing their jobs to foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing. And the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton's answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security.  These are matters of life and death for our country and its people, and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton. And do you notice, she doesn't answer.

She didn't go to Louisiana. She didn't go to Mexico. She was invited. She doesn't have the strength or the stamina to make America great again. Believe me.  What we do know, despite the lack of media curiosity, is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. Just ask the Border Patrol about Hillary Clinton. You won't like what you're hearing. The result will be millions more illegal immigrants; thousands of more violent, horrible crimes; and total chaos and lawlessness. That's what's going to happen, as sure as you're standing there.
This election, and I believe this, is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal immigration and reform our laws to make your life better. I really believe this is it. This is our last time. November 8. November 8. You got to get out and vote on November 8.  It's our last chance. It's our last chance. And that includes Supreme Court justices and Second Amendment. Remember that.
So I want to remind everyone what we're fighting for and who we are fighting for. I am going to ask -- these are really special people that I've gotten to know. I'm going to ask all of the "Angel Moms" to come join me on the stage right now. These are amazing women. 
These are amazing people. 

I've become friends with so many. But Jamiel Shaw, incredible guy, lost his son so violently. Say just a few words about your child.

Thank you, thank you.

You know what? Name your child and come right by. Go ahead.

These are amazing people, and I am not asking for their endorsement, believe me that. I just think I've gotten to know so many of them, and many more, from our group. But they are incredible people and what they're going through is incredible, and there's just no reason for it. Let's give them a really tremendous hand.  That's tough stuff, I will tell you. That is tough stuff. Incredible people. So, now is the time for these voices to be heard. Now is the time for the media to begin asking questions on their behalf. Now is the time for all of us as one country, Democrat, Republican, liberal, conservative to band together to deliver justice, and safety, and security for all Americans. Let's fix this horrible, horrible, problem. It can be fixed quickly. Let's our secure our border.  Let's stop the drugs and the crime from pouring into our country. Let's protect our social security and Medicare. Let's get unemployed Americans off the welfare and back to work in their own country. This has been an incredible evening. We're going to remember this evening. November 8, we have to get everybody. This is such an important state. November 8 we have to get everybody to go out and vote. We're going to bring -- thank you, thank you. We're going to take our country back, folks. This is a movement. We're going to take our country back. Thank you.  Thank you. This is an incredible movement. The world is talking about it. The world is talking about it and by the way, if you haven't been looking to what's been happening at the polls over the last three or four days I think you should start looking. You should start looking.  Together we can save American lives, American jobs, and American futures. Together we can save America itself. Join me in this mission, we're going to make America great again. Thank you. I love you. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. God bless you, thank you. 

Thank you. We're going to win Ohio, no doubt about that.  You know, I want to start by thanking somebody that's been so great. He's the owner of this building and he really does work hard. He's become a very, very successful guy, Robbie Roberts. He's here someplace. Where's Robbie Roberts?  Right there. Come on, Robert. Fantastic. Way to go. man. Thank you. Appreciate it. I appreciate it. Matt Borges, where's Matt? Republican Party. He has done such a good job. I think we're going to win Ohio. Big league folks. Big league. Big league.  So -- and I just want to thank everybody. I mean, to come out here in these numbers, these -- man, I'll tell you, that's a lot of people. This is a lot of -- we've been having a lot of people. We have a movement going on. We have a movement going on, just remember. It's going to be something special. And come November we are going to win this state, I have very little doubt.  We're going to win the White House.
And we're going to bring back your jobs, which we have to have back and we want them back soon. We're going to negotiate fair trade deals that put American workers back to work, that put America first.  We're going to stop the product dumping, the unfair foreign subsidies and the currency manipulation that's absolutely killing our companies. And by the way, killing our jobs. We're going to stop the foreign cheating. The era of economic surrender, which is what we've done, essentially, is over. A new era of American greatness is going to begin and it's going to start a little ahead of schedule -- we'll consider the start date November 8th. That's when you go out to vote.  Gonna be a big day, November 8th. You gotta get out there. No state has been hurt worse, really, by Hillary Clinton trade policies than Ohio. Hillary Clinton backed her husband's NAFTA. She backed China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. She backed the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, which was a disaster, and backed TPP, Trans-Pacific Partnership. One bad deal after another. Ohio has lost nearly one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and nearly one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization. That's really something. These are deals made at the top. We have no leadership. We're going to have great leadership. We're gonna bring our jobs back. We're gonna open new companies. You're gonna be so proud of your country once again.  Our trade deficit in goods with the world is now, think of it, $800 billion. Trade deficit. Can you imagine? This subtracts directly from our growth. Our economy grew only 1.1 percent in the last quarter, a total disaster, a number that's so low they went back and they checked and guess what? They found it was too high; they had to reduce it even further. That was last week. This is the legacy of Barack Obama, this is the legacy of Hillary Clinton. If you, for any reason, have a really bad day, and it happens to be Hillary, it'll be four more years of Obama, but worse. It'll be four more years of high taxes, four more years of ISIS growing all over the place, four more years of Obamacare going up 40, 50, 60 percent. Nobody can afford it, the deductibles are so high it doesn't work anyway. You have to be hit by a truck and die slowly, very, very slowly. You'll never get to use it. That's OK; don't get hit by a truck. I'm promising you a new legacy for America. We're going to create a new American future.
But to do that we have to stop the horror known as Trans- Pacific Partnership. It's going to be a horrible deal. It will be perhaps as bad as NAFTA. I don't think anything will ever top NAFTA personally, but it'll be very bad. Our trade deficit with the proposed TPP members countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs just last year.  Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved -- if it was actually approved. Hillary Clinton, who called TPP the gold standard, would 100 percent approve it if she ever got in. We won't let that happen.  We'll win this election and we'll keep America out of TPP. We will defend our freedom, our jobs and our economic independence. It's going to be America first.  My economic plan is going to grow this economy, raise your wages and create millions and millions of new jobs for this country. Here are a few of the things that we're going to do and we're going to get them done quickly: a massive tax cut for working Americans.  We're going to eliminate regulations that kill American jobs, and that includes getting rid of Obama administration's new anti-energy rules that will raise Ohio energy bills by more than 40 percent very, very quickly. Hillary Clinton says she wants to put a lot of coal miners out of business. She wants to put them out of business.  We're going to protect our coal miners.  We're going to protect our steel workers. We're going to protect our factories -- how about factory workers?  The factories that we have left -- the factories that we have left, we're going to protect our workers. We're going to put the miners and the steel workers back to work. We're going to get your energy bills way down where they should be. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.  Which, by the way, will save another 2 million jobs over the next decade. We're going to create jobs for all of our people. And we're going to fight to ensure that every young African-American and Latino child is put on the ladder of American success.  And what that means is a great education and a great job.  A major part of this agenda includes school choice. School choice, so important. Merit pay for teachers and support for our great charter schools. And we're going to bring your education local, folks. We're going to get rid of Common Core.  Common Core will be out. We're bringing it local. Bringing it local.  I want every single child in this country to be included in the American dream. Another major part of our agenda is immigration security. We need to protect American jobs, security and safety.

Don't worry, we're going to build that wall. That wall will go up. It's going to go up.  We're gonna build the wall. Mexico's gonna pay for the wall. We're gonna stop drugs from coming in.  We've gotta stop the drugs from pouring into our states.  It's poisoning our youth and others. Our youth is being poisoned. People are being poisoned. And we've gotta get it stopped and we will get it stopped and we're gonna get it stopped quickly if I win. Quickly.  Last night, I outlined a bold new immigration reform to create prosperity and opportunity for all of our people, especially those who have the least. We will treat everyone with dignity, respect and compassion. But our greatest compassion will be for the American citizen. 

It will be, from now on, America first.  I had a great meeting yesterday with the president of Mexico, where we both expressed our shared desire -- and it is a shared desire -- to secure the border, put the cartels out of business and to keep jobs in our hemisphere.  But let's also talk about government corruption. No issue better illustrates how corrupt my opponent is than her pay-for-play scandals as secretary of state.  Here is one example of Clinton corruption. As secretary of state, Hillary Clinton signed off on a deal allowing Russians to take an increased stake in a company called Uranium One, giving up control of about 20 percent of America's uranium supply to the Russians. Do you know how important uranium is? You know what it represents? Clinton's approval of the deal netted the owners of Uranium Company millions of dollars. In exchange for signing off the deal, some of the former owners of Uranium One gave the Clinton Foundation many millions of dollars in donations.  In addition. Bill Clinton received $500,000 for a speech. I mean, think of this. So a Kremlin-backed investment firm that was a big, big beneficiary of the deal. Here's another example of pay-for-play in the Clinton State Department. In 2009, a telecom giant named Ericsson came under U.S. pressure for selling telecom equipment to several oppressive governments including Sudan, Syria and always Iran.  It's Iran. They're involved in a lot of stuff aren't they? Some of these regimes use those technologies to monitor and control their own people.
In June 2011, Hillary Clinton's State Department began adding goods and services to a list that might be covered under expanded sanctions on Iran and other state sponsors of terrorism. During that time, Ericsson sponsored a speech by Bill Clinton paying him $750,000; his highest paying speech. In April 2012, the Obama administration issued an executive order imposing sanctions on telecom sales to Iran and Syria, but those sanctions did not cover Ericsson's work in Iran. I wonder why. A Trump administration will end government corruption.  No one will be above the law.  We will have one set of rules for everyone. In Hillary Clinton's world, we have one set of rules for her and another set of rules for everybody else.  I'm fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. We are soon going to have a voice.  I'm fighting for the forgotten men and women of America -- forgotten. Believe me, forgotten. I am your voice. I didn't need to do this folks. I'm spending a lot of money. I'm not having those big checks written like you-know-who's getting. Spent a lot of money. But you know what? In the end, it's going to be so worth it, because we're going to make America great again. We'll make America great again.  Hillary Clinton is funded by Wall Street and hedge fund managers. My campaign is powered by my money, but also by small-dollar donations from people working all across the country who want a better future for their children.  Nothing terrifies the ruling class more than when everybody and everyday working people give $5, $10, $15, $60, $80, $100 to help us take government away from the special interests and give it back to the voters.  Come November 8th, we are once again going to have a government that serves you, your family and your country. Gonna have it.  We're going to rebuild our depleted military, avoid needless foreign wars, build new friendships overseas and remember those three famous words: peace through strength.  We're going to work with our allies to crush, defeat and utterly destroy ISIS.  We're going to have a new immigration screening test for entry into the United States.  We only want to admit those into our country who share our values and love our people. And I mean love our people.
My tax reforms will add millions of new jobs and thousands or new small businesses. My energy reforms will create millions of new jobs and lower the price of your energy bill very, very substantially. My trade reforms will raise wages, grow jobs, add trillions of new wealth into our country. We are going to become a wealthy country again. And we will be able to do things that we're not even thinking about right now. We are not even thinking about what we are supposed to be doing. My infrastructure plans will rebuild your roads, your bridges, your tunnels, your railways, your airports -- and they are a mess. My regulatory reforms will make it easier for small businesses to thrive, including millions of minority-owned businesses and small businesses all across the country. So important. Jobs, jobs, jobs. My government will reform and will make your -- look, what's the line? Your voice will be heard again.  It won't be the voice of the special interests. Every insider getting rich off our broken system is throwing money at Hillary Clinton. I have charts -- I won't even show you -- but it shows what hedge fund people are giving to her. I think I got $18,000, she got $48 million. And I said, "Who gave me the 18? Not going to get anything." It's the powerful protecting the powerful, insiders fighting for insiders. I am fighting for you, believe me.  Thank you. Every day you turn on the nightly news, you hear about some self- interested banker or some Washington insider say they oppose Donald Trump's campaign, or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign -- because it really is our campaign. I am merely the messenger folks, believe me. I am merely the messenger.  Or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose our campaign. I wear their opposition as a badge of honor, it is a badge of honor. Because it means that I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change. I'm fighting -- all of us across the country are fighting to give working people control over their own futures. Not like the way we have it now. Where you go home and all of a sudden you get notified you have no job, the company is leaving, going to Mexico or some other place. No good. We're not going to do it anymore folks. We've been doing it for a long time; we're not going to do it anymore.  The media-donor-political complex that's bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by, and for the people.  I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
I am asking for your vote so you can be our champion and so I can be your champion in the White House. I will be your champion. We will fight for victory. We will fight for real deals. We will fight for our vets. We're gonna be fighting for a lot.  We're gonna be fighting. Believe me, we're gonna be fighting. We're going to show the whole world that can't believe what's happened to our country, that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.  And it's coming back, your jobs are coming back, believe me. Your jobs are coming back. To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you today: I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you. We'll all win together.  We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. We will make America prosperous again. We will make America great again.  Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. November 8th, get out and vote. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.

Thank you so much. What a great honor and privilege to speak to you today. The American Legion is very, very special, so thank you very much. I want to thank commander Dale Barnett, and your vice commanders, and your constitutional officers. You have all done such an incredible job. The fact is, you are incredible people.  The men and women of the American Legion represent the best -- absolute best of America. Strength, courage, selfless devotion. Your organization and its members have done so much to defend our country, our flag, and to advance the cause of Amnericanism, not globalism.  Remember: American first. America first. You're one group I don't have to tell you to remember it also. You know it. We are in your debt very deeply. I will never let you down.
Together we're going to work on so many shared goals, but I want to begin by discussing one goal that I know is so important to you. Promoting American pride and patriotism in America's schools. Very important.  In a Trump administration, I plan to work directly with the American Legion to uphold our common values and to help ensure they are taught to America's children.  We want our kids to learn the incredible achievements of America's history, its institutions and its heroes, many of whom are with us today, I can tell you. Including, by the way, two special people, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and Senator Jeff Sessions. They're right here.  We will stop apologizing for America. And we will start celebrating America.
We will be united by our common culture, values and principles, becoming one American nation, one country, under one Constitution, saluting one American flag, and always saluting it.  The flag all of you helped to protect and preserve. That flag deserves respect, and I will work with the American Legion to help to strengthen respect for our flag. You see what's happening, it's very, very sad.  And by the way, we want young Americans to recite the Pledge of Allegiance.  In addition to teaching respect for the flag we also have to make sure we give our military the tools they need to defend that flag and to deter violence and aggression from our foreign adversaries of which there are many. We will rebuild our depleted military and pursue a state of the art missile defense. We will do it based on those three very famous words -- peace through strength.  We will make sure our soldiers, sailors, airmen and marines have the best equipment, training, tools anywhere in the world. Nobody will be able to compete with us and we will ensure that they have the best medical care in the world, both in service and when they return home as civilians.  That will require a total reform of the Veterans Administration. It's in very sad shape. I deal with veterans all the time. We have tremendous veterans' support, and the stories that I hear are so sad. We're not gonna have that anymore. I've laid out a 10-step V.A. reform plan that you can review on my website. Here are the basics. I will appoint a secretary of veterans affairs whose personal mission will be to clean up the V.A. The secretary's sole  will be to serve our veterans, not bureaucrats, not politicians but our great veterans.  I'm going to use every lawful authority to remove and discipline who fails our veterans or breaches the public trust, which is what it is. It's a public trust. I will appoint a commission to investigate all the wrongdoing at the V.A., and there's plenty, and then present those findings to Congress as the basis for reforming the entire system. We're going to get you fantastic service. It's going to happen, believe me.  We'll ensure every veteran in American gets timely access to top- quality care including the best care in the world for our female veterans.  The veterans health system will remain a public system because it is after all a public trust. But never again will we allow any veteran to suffer or die waiting for care. That means veterans will have the right to go to a V.A. facility, or the right to see a private doctor or clinic of their choice, whatever is the fastest, and best for veterans. People are not going to die waiting on line to see a doctor. It's not going to happen.  The veteran will be in total control.
Should I have the honor of serving as president, we're also going to start facing the world with confidence again. We are going to uphold the laws of the nation and defend our sovereignty and security, and we are going to defend our border.  I just came back from a wonderful meeting with the president of Mexico, where I expressed my deep respect for the people of his country, and for the tremendous contributions of Mexican-Americans in our country. And they have made tremendous contributions. Many are in our armed service; you know how good they are. I want to again thank him for his gracious hospitality and express my belief that we can work together to accomplish great things for both countries. That's Mexico and the United States.  We agreed in the meeting on the need to stop the illegal flow of guns, drugs, cash and people across the border and to take out the cartels. Have to get rid of those cartels and we have to do it quickly.  Our country is being poisoned. Our country is being poisoned. We're also talking about and talked about the importance of working to keep jobs and wealth in our hemisphere. A more prosperous Mexico means fewer illegal border crossings and a better market for products made in the United States. When I'm president, I'm going to look at every trade deal we have across the world, and see what steps must be taken to protect American jobs and create new opportunities for the American worker. The American worker has been forgotten and we're not going to let that happen.  We will fight for every last American jobs. And we will have friendships with other countries, but they will not take advantage of us any longer. That I can tell you.  We're going to show ourselves and the world again what a strong and growing American economy can look like. We're going to give major tax relief to every worker and small business in this country, bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs back to our shores, and unleash an American energy revolution, which we have to do. We will also be appointing justices of the United States Supreme Court, who -- you will be very proud -- you will be extremely proud when we name them. You've already seen some of the people and the kind of people that we want. Justice Scalia -- passed away recently -- serves as an absolute perfect focal point. He is the kind of person we want on the United States Supreme Court.  I will nominate men and women to the court who meet the high standard of Justice Scalia, and judges who have the wisdom and integrity to follow the law and just not make it up any way they want to make it up.  Above all, these next four years, I will be uncompromising in the defense of the United States and our friends and our good allies. We are going to end the era of nation-building and create a new foreign policy, joined by our partners in the Middle East, that is focused on destroying ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.  We will extend the hand of friendship to any nation that will work with us in good faith on this vital mission. And we want this mission to be accomplished quickly. At the same time, we will change our immigration screening procedures to help keep terrorists and extremists out of our country.  We have enough problems. Our country has enough problems, We don't need that one. And that includes stopping the influx of Syrian refugees.
Incredibly, my opponent, Hillary Clinton, wants a 550 percent increase in refugees from that region. Hard to believe. I, on the other hand, want to build a safe zone overseas and use the money saved to invest in America.  We do not want to let anyone in our country who doesn't support our values and who is not capable of loving our people. It's time to create a new American future for you, your children and all American children yet to come. In this future, we will have an honest government that includes an honest State Department, not pay for play.  She probably didn't mention that to you yesterday. Government access and favors will no longer be for sale, and important e-mail records will no longer be deleted and digitally altered, which is something they just found out two days ago. Bleached. Bleached. Expensive process. Why? Why? 33,000 e-mails bleached, through a very expensive process. You ask yourself, "What's going on?" We will also have an efficient and responsible federal budget. No more waste. No more throwing away taxpayer dollars. Once more we will have a government of, by and for the people. It will be...  It will be an inclusive society, one that offers hope and opportunity to every part of this country, including our inner cities. We will ensure that every child in this land, including African- American and Hispanic children, are put on the American ladder of success, meaning a great education and a great job, which they're not getting now. We will follow the noble example of our military men and women working selflessly across all different races and incomes and backgrounds to achieve unity and accomplish amazing things. You are amazing people. Just in case you didn't know that, OK? Amazing people. Ladies and gentlemen of the American Legion, I ask today for the honor of your vote. Working in unison, we can deliver the real American change our country so desperately needs. We will make -- we will make, America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again.  Thank you very much and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Well, General thank you very much for being here Mike, we really appreciate it. And we really appreciate all of those generals and admirals that today endorsed me. We have...

The use of the fighters...

Almost 90. And these are our fighters, these are our fighting generals and they're actually a lot more to come. But I really appreciate everything from you and all of them. We have great respect for those people. These are great, great people. So if you look at the veteran's situation, I have been so involved over the last year-and-a-half and before that in seeing what's going on with the V.A. And it is a disaster. And I've become so friendly and helped the veterans in so many different ways. But it's such a big problem and we have no clue.
Hillary Clinton said everything's working just fine. She doesn't know that people are standing on line for seven days to see a doctor. And dying, Mike. They're dying on line. And we came out with a plan, a 10-point plan and it's on the website and you'll see it if you want. Most of -- I'm sure most of you have already seen it, but it's been really praised by the veterans and the veterans groups. And the fact is the V.A. is a -- the Veterans Administration and waiting and all of the problems and you do have some good doctors in there, but people can't get to see the doctors because the administration -- the bureaucratic workings of the Veterans Administration are a total disaster. And what I've done and what I've looked at -- and you know all about the rate of suicide and all of the problems and numbers that honestly are not even believable when you hear 22 people a day, 22 people a day. These are numbers that you wouldn't even think are believable and a lot of it is because of the fact that they can't get better. They can't -- they have no service whatsoever. And it's been really, really badly handled. One of the things that I've done is we allow when that wait is so long and so horrible -- and sometimes, by the way, a simple procedure or simple prescription, just a very simple thing can make a person's life wonderful health wise. And they can't get to see the doctor -- they can't get to see the doctor. And we have a plan where if you have a wait, you're going to leave, you're going to go across the street or down the road or a few miles away, you're going to see a doctor, a really good doctor, you're going to get taken care of 100 percent or you're going to go and you're going to go to a local hospital, whether it's public or private. You're going to get taken care of and your government is going to pay your bill. And you're going to be all set. It's going to be very good. Every simple. 

It should have been done a long time ago.

The female veterans have been like the forgotten people and I think it started because it was -- you know, obviously a while ago, there were far fewer and they haven't increased that capacity and now you have tremendous numbers of female vets and we are going to do procedures that they've never done. And we are going to help the female veteran. They have not been helped. They've really been left behind, even more so than our male veterans. They've been left behind. And it's just not going to happen. We're going to straighten it out. We're going to give them also the right -- if things are not being done right, they're going to have the right to go to a local doctor or physician or a local hospital. And again, whether it's public or private, whichever one is most convenient and whichever one is better frankly, and they're going to get themselves taken care of whether it's male or female, and that's so important. And the other issue that's so important is mental health because the mental health problem is such a massive -- it's such a massive problem in the V.A., and that's something we're going to devote a tremendous amount of time to. And it's not just amount of money. You know, the money they're spending is tremendously -- it's a huge amount of money that they're currently spending. But there are people that are incompetent in the V.A., and they have people that are stealing. You've seen that. If you look at Phoenix and what's gone on in Phoenix where they can't even fire the people, they found people that are stealing and found people that are very dishonest, they can't even get rid of them. All of that's going to change. The V.A. -- you're going to be so proud of what you have. I mean, we're going to take it and you're going to be so proud of what you have, believe me. 

Look, she's a disaster in so many different ways, folks. Disaster.  I don't even -- I don't really even think she believes in herself. You know, she was brought so far left -- she was brought so far left by Bernie and the group -- and I think we're going to get a lot of the Bernie people because of trade, if you want to know the truth. A lot of the Bernie people are coming with us.  Because the one thing he was right about is the fact that our country's being ripped off like never before on these trade deals that are disasters. NAFTA has been a disaster for the United States.  It's destroyed our country. And that's one thing he got right. And a lot of people liked him because of trade more so than anything else. But when it comes to immigration, first of all, she thinks that everything is more or less fine. She wants to allow a 650 percent increase over and above what Obama's allowing to come in from Syria and the Middle East. 650 percent. And he's already allowing thousands and thousands of people in. And we don't know where they're coming from. You people know because we're military people -- we don't know where they're coming from. We know -- you see the damage that one person can do, you just have to look anywhere. You see the damage that -- whether it's Orlando or whether it's two people that just got married or they're married and they're, you know, from San Bernardino -- you see in San Bernardino they're getting thrown a party, a shower party or a baby party, and then a short while later they go and they kill 14 people in the group. Look, we've got problems, folks. We have to figure it out. And if we don't figure it out, we have to be careful and vigilant and strong. And she wants to allow a 550 percent increase. You know, I was -- very interesting, I was saying she wants to allow 500 percent more coming in from that region and the press said I was wrong. I said, "Oh, what's the real number?" 550. So that time, it was true. 

They said the number was too low. But as long as they can prove me wrong, they're happy. But 550 percent increase in people coming from Syria and that part of the world and we can't do it. I want to build safe havens, and we'll have other people build them, by the way.  We'll have other people fund them. We'll lead the charge. But, you know, Barack Obama has -- has doubled during his fairly short period of years -- he's doubled our national debt, doubled it. It's going to be close to $20 trillion when he leaves. $20 trillion. So, we have to get rid of at least a good portion of that. So we're going to have other people, we're going to have the Gulf states pay for this, because we're going to build safe havens. I mean, look, we all have big hearts. We just can't allow these people into our country until we find out what's going on. We can't do it. We can't do it. Very good. 

By the way you have illegal immigrants -- I hate to say this in this room, because you have a lot of vets in the room. But you have illegal immigrants that she wants and he wants treated better than veterans. You have these people are treated better than people that are in this room.  You know it. They are treated better than veterans. And let me tell you, folks, they've got their priorities mixed up. That's going to change so fast, OK? That's going to change.
Good.  General, we have a couple of people -- by the way, Mayor Rudy Giuliani of New York. What a great man . Stand up. Stand up, Rudy.  Rudy -- whoa. They love him. We love what he did. He took a city that was a disaster, he took New York City and he made it great. Think of it, made it great again, right? He made it great again. So, Rudy, great to be -- to see you. And Eric Trump's wife Laura is here and she's done a fantastic job.  Laura has been working very hard, in particular in North Carolina, but helping also with Virginia. We have some people in Virginia, Mike Rabino  and the group. They have done -- they have been amazing and hopefully we can get everybody registered because we have to win. Virginia is a very important state. We have to win Virginia.  Thank you.
OK. So speaking of disasters, the Iran nuclear deal. And Iran -- Iran has -- I mean, we're talking about putting nukes into the hands of an ayatollah that says death to America, death to Israel and they continue to fire ballistic missiles all the time in violation of this deal. But Iran has engaged in growing hostilities, has increasingly shown it continues to have nuclear ambitions. And as president, what are you going to do about Iran?
First of all, if you look at the policies of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, they have created what will be a world power. Not -- you know, they're talking about a regional power. This is going to be a world power. They have become rich, they have become powerful. The deal is one of the worst negotiated deals of any kind that I've ever seen if you look at it, you study it. We gave them $150 billion. How about the $400 million in cash that we gave them flown in -- obviously for hostages. That was the big lie also, just like Obamacare was a big lie. This was a big lie.  And 400 -- think of it, $400 million in cash and they kept the hostages. Remember, it had the nothing to do with the hostages but the hostages weren't allowed to leave the airport until such time and then they came. Whoever heard of $400 million in cash, different denominations, different countries, all different money from different countries. Who even has the power to authorize something like this? So what we've done is created a monster. We've created in three years, four years if you look at -- if you take a look at Iran from four, five years ago, they were dying. They had the sanctions, the , they were being choked to death and they were absolutely dying, they weren't even going to be much of a threat, they didn't have anything going and now they're a power. We've made them a power. Overnight we've made them a power. Number one, they're highly threatening to the state of Israel, they are so bad for Israel. Obama has been so bad to Israel. But they're a great threat. And they're a threat to us. And they're going to have nuclear weapons and this path, in my opinion, is going to be a quicker path to nuclear weapons. The deal is grossly incompetent. And then I don't know if you saw the other day we have the little boats going out and they're making all sorts of horrible gestures. They learned the gestures, I guess, they studied the United States and they gave those kind of gestures to our sailors and our captain on the boats and I bet those guys wanted to blow them out of the water. I'll bet you.   I'll bet you they wanted to blow them up.
And so you see these four little boats circling, circling, going around, you know, taunting, taunting. It's like they've been emboldened. Here we are, we made a deal that's such a great deal for them and they now feel power. They feel power. Remember the sailors -- the 10 sailors who were a little bit off, they were in the water? So instead of saying, "Hey, you're in our water, please go over there," they humiliated our country, they humiliated those 10 people. And this -- and the only reason we got them back -- of course, you would have gotten them back very fast if I was president, that I can tell you.  But the only reason we got them back was the payment the following day was due. A lot of the money the following day was due. And stupid they're not. And they wanted to get that. But just think of what's going on. Here we are, we've made this deal, we just -- we made them a power. And we also happen to have given them Iraq, because Iraq -- you know, I always say Iraq and Iran were very similar militarily and they'd fight, fight, fight. And then they'd rest. They'd fight, fight, fight. And then Saddam Hussein would do the gas and somebody else would do something else and they'd rest. We knocked out the one. And a lot of people don't realize that Iraq has some of the greatest oil reserves anywhere in the world. And so Iran is going to get whatever ISIS already doesn't already have, and probably take that too by the way. What we've done to create a major, major power through really stupid leaders -- stupidity -- is just shocking. It's one of the dumbest deals I've ever seen. John Kerry's a terrible negotiator, but somebody...  But don't forget, this was a deal that crooked Hillary Clinton wanted. She wanted this deal. This was a very important deal. And she wanted that deal. And most people don't even get it. You know, normally you understand a deal. You say, "Yeah, I understand, we get this" -- we get nothing. We get nothing. This was a deal at the highest level of incompetence. The deal with Iran was at the highest level of incompetence.  So we'll -- we'll solve that problem if I get the chance, believe me. And if I get the chance, you'll be very happy -- you'll be very happy. 

Well, first of all, it wouldn't have started if we had proper leadership. Because what happened...  We shouldn't have been in Iraq, but we shouldn't have gotten out of Iraq the way we got out, where literally they announced we're going to leave by a certain date. I mean, the enemy couldn't even believe it. Actually, a lot of people thought it was a little bit of a deception, because they couldn't believe anybody would say it. It turned out to be true. And we should have left a small force, relatively small force. As much as I didn't want to be there, we should have left a small force. And really ISIS just evolved out of all of the turmoil, all of the weakness, all of the stupidity of decisions from Hillary Clinton, from Barack Obama.
And ISIS started off in a small area and now I read the other day they're in 28 different states or nations. Twenty-eight, think of it. So they're spreading rapidly. A report came out where they were told within the government that they want to try and minimize ISIS and minimize, but the fact is they know it's actually gotten very much out of control. And we have to do something about, we can't allow the chopping off of heads, the drowning of people in steel cages, the viciousness, the violence, we have to knock out ISIS. We have to knock them out good. And we have to get countries that are affected by ISIS. I mean a lot of people say as an example Russia you know Hillary likes to play tough with Russia. Putin looks at her and he laughs. OK? He laughs.  Putin -- Putin looks at Hillary Clinton and he smiles. Boy, would he like to see her. That would be easy. Because just look at her decisions. Look how bad her decisions have been. Virtually every decision she's made has been a loser. But wouldn't it be nice -- honestly, because Russia doesn't like ISIS any better than we do. Wouldn't it be nice if we actually got along with Russia and you could knock them out together? Wouldn't that be a good thing?  As opposed to, you know, tough talk. She tries to do the tough talk and then she leaves. You know, she goes. I watched it yesterday on the airplane, talking tough about Russia. Then she turned around and sat down, you know. Which by the way, wasn't even played on the national media. Wasn't that incredible? Wasn't even played. So we have to get along with people. We have to get along with certain nations, very importantly. Because it would be awfully good to have Russia and others with us on major attacks on ISIS. 

Well, that's it. And you know cyber is becoming so big today. It's becoming something that a number of years ago, a short number of years ago wasn't even a word. And now the cyber is so big. And you know you look at what they're doing with the internet, how they're taking recruiting people through the internet and part of it is the psychology because so many people think they're winning. And you know there's a whole big thing. Even today's psychology where CNN came out with a big poll that big poll came out today that Trump is winning; it's good psychology you know.  It's good psychology. I know that for a fact because people that didn't call me yesterday, they're calling me today. So that's the way life works right? But I think we're doing very well. And I really think the State of Virginia; so many different places have been so incredible. So I thank you very much.  But cyber has been very, very important. And it's becoming more and more important as you look. And a lot of it does have to do with ideology and psychology and lots of other things. You know we're in a different world today than we were in 20 years ago and 30 years ago. And one of the biggest problems and one of the reasons we have to knock them out is because the weaponry is so powerful today. You know in the old days you could have said, well look they have rifles, we have rifles. We shoot. They have uniforms, we have uniforms. This is a whole different war. The weaponry is so powerful.
And we have to beat them over there. We're allowing people to come over here. We're allowing, think of it, you military people. We're allowing people to come over here. And, you know, I used to watch the migration and I'd see people with cell phones. I'd say, "Where do they get cell phones?" And some of those people had very horrible things on their cell phones including the ISIS flag. And you say "What are we doing?" What are we doing? But we're allowing people to come here and we don't know do they turn on us? Are a small percentage of them bad? Because if a small percentage is bad, that's not acceptable. It's not acceptable. We can't take the risk. Just a small percentage can do such damage, so we can't take the risk.  So, General, the bottom line is we have to get very tough and we have to get very smart, or we're not going to have much of a country left, I can tell you that, right now.  Good.

Look, we have a problem. It's called ISIS. ISIS is fighting Syria. Now we've built up Iran to be a big power. Iran is on the side of Assad, Syria. Russia is on the side of Assad, Syria. So, we built these people up, we build -- we created this -- this strong power in Iran which, seriously, folks, you know better than anybody, four years ago, they were dying, they were gasping for air, and all we had to do was let them sit for a little longer -- in fact double up your sanctions. You wouldn't have had -- you could have really negotiated a deal. How Kerry never left -- that deal was incredible. Everybody knows it was bad. They're dancing on the streets all over Iran and, literally, they're all celebrating, you know, shouting, "Death to America. Dumb Americans." What they're saying is incredible. They're saying, "Death to Israel." This is in the middle of the negotiation. If I had a negotiation like that I'd say, "Let's check this negotiation, something's not going very well." We just kept going right through. He never left the table once. If you would have left that table and said "I'm sorry, you guys" -- first of all, we should have gotten our hostages back before we started the negotiation, OK?  Hundred percent. And we should have said very nicely, with respect, "Sorry, folks, until you do it" -- and then you leave the room because they're going to say "No, we're not giving your hostage back." Say "That's OK, don't worry about it," then you get up, you leave. You get back to your plane, you double up the sanctions. They will call you before you arrive back in Washington or wherever you're going, turn the plane around in mid-air, your hostages are coming back. OK? Not $400 million in cash that we have to give. Believe me.  And it's 100 percent, it's 100 -- it's not like 99 percent, it's 100 percent. You leave, you say very nicely -- I always tell my -- you know, the story of my father, who was a very good negotiator, he taught me so much. And he'd say -- are you listening to this, Ivanka? But he'd say "son" -- he thought I was too tough with things, right? He said "Son, take the lumps out." Did you ever hear this story? "Take the lumps out." My father, Fred. Said, "Just nice and easy, nice and easy. Just relax, take the lumps out." And so, I was thinking -- see, in the old days I would have said, "We're not giving you anything," you know, I would've made the room very angry. Now I just say "Sorry. We owe $20 trillion. We don't have the money. We can't do it. We can't do it."  . We don't -- by the way. How do we pay them all this? We keep the $150 billion, but with the hostages you say, "We have to have it back. Look, our people want the hostages; your people don't care." Their people probably didn't even know -- they did because they played up the hostages because that's a sign of, you know, the big brave Iran.
So, what happens is you say, "We have to have the hostages back." They will say, "No." You leave the room and you double up the sanctions. Within 48 hours, you'll have your hostages back. Believe me. But they didn't do that. Kerry never walked. The only time he walked is when he entered a bicycle race. Can you believe this guy? Seventy-three years old. It's true.  He fell off his bicycle and he broke his leg and he was out of the negotiation for three or four weeks. And they probably did better in the negotiation when he wasn't there. That's the only time that he left. He should have left the negotiation and doubled up the sanctions and get what he wanted. That deal is a disaster for us. It's a shorter road to nuclear weapons and it's an incompetently negotiated deal. So these are the things that we're stuck with, folks, but we will fix them.

Well, it's more of the same. I mean, it's just another place they've taken over. This was a Hillary Clinton deal. We could have done a minor attack. You know, he was begging, he wanted to make a deal, he wanted to do whatever. And this was just -- Gadhafi was so strong on wanting to -- you know, because he knew what was going to happen. But she was unyielding. And frankly, it's a total disaster Libya right now. You know, they have among the finest quality oils anywhere in the world. Their oil is so valuable, so good. And you know who's got a lot of that oil right now? ISIS, ISIS has it. So we knock them out and ISIS now is all over Libya and they've taken over the oil. Remember -- I've been saying this for years, folks, keep the oil. Shouldn't have been there. If you get out, keep the oil.  And we should've kept the oil and we didn't. We didn't keep the oil anywhere, we got out. We spent -- I've been saying $2 trillion for years. I know one thing, it's now -- I'm hearing $4 trillion. I mean, you look at what we've spent, $4 trillion to $5 trillion, in the Middle East. And think of it, what do we have? Less than what we had 15 years ago. It's a disaster. It's a total disaster on top of which you have the migration which is destroying Europe. Look at Merkel. I mean, what happened to her the other day in the election is incredible. And I knew that was going to happen. I mean, how could -- what, she's supposed to be popular? Germany is a disaster now. France is a disaster. I have friends -- they love, you know, the city of lights, right? I said to one of my friends the other day, "So how was Paris this summer?" He always goes -- he said, "I don't go there anymore." He said it's not the same place. It's a totally -- that's not Paris anymore. We're destroying our planet. We're destroying what's going on. We're destroying ourselves. And you look at the election results from Merkel, they were so bad. And people were saying, "Oh, I think she'll be OK." I don't think she'll be OK. I was saying -- two weeks ago , I said, why would she be OK? Millions of people go into Germany. The crime is unbelievable. The problems they're having is unbelievable and Hillary Clinton wants to be the Merkel of the United States, OK? I don't think so. I don't think it's going to happen. I'll tell you what, I don't think it's going to happen.

Well, first of all, as I predicted years ago, Iran is really controlling Iraq. And they're in there now and they have -- we have just -- you know, they've wanted it -- for decades and decades and decades they've wanted it. And we gave it to them. We gave it to them. Because you had two militaries that were equal. I was saying before, they fight, fight, fight, they rest. They fight, fight, fight, they move 10 feet this way, 10 feet this way, they go home and rest. We've handed it to them on a silver platter. You know, when I say about the deal that we made for them or with them on, you know -- on the whole -- you know, the $150 billion deal, I always said that's one of the best deals I've ever seen. Not really. The best deal is we have given them Iraq, with among the largest and finest oil reserves in the world. We've given that to Iran. We've handed it to them. What we've done is incredible. If we would've -- if our presidents would've just stayed home and gone to the beach, or even gone out and played golf every single day, played two rounds a day...  OK, which Obama almost does, but...  But I think he's played three -- look, golf is wonderful. I think he's played 300 rounds of golf or something like that -- more than 300. That's more golf than many members of the PGA tour.  OK. So look, it's a very serious problem. But honestly, if they would've just done nothing, we would've been in much better shape. Forget about much better shape; it wouldn't even be close. The Middle East now is a total catastrophe, between the migration and all of the problem -- and all of the death. And I'm talking death on both sides, folks. I'm talking death on both sides. Look at the people. You know they blow up a city and they say two people were wounded. All right? You know the real numbers, OK. The real numbers are astronomical, astronomical. And we started this whole thing. And I'll tell you what, we are going to solve the ISIS problem, but we have to also get back -- and we have to solve it big league and strongly and swiftly. But we have to get back to rebuilding our country, because our country is going to Hell. Our infrastructure is a disaster.  Our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our hospitals, our schools -- I mean, we go into Afghanistan and build a school. They blow it up. We build it again, they blow it up. We build it a third time, it's still there, barely. And yet if we need a school in Virginia, or we need a school in Brooklyn, New York, or we need a school in Iowa, there's no money. OK, there's no money. What are we doing? What are doing? So, one of those things. 

One thing, General, I have to say, the people in our military are amazing. They're amazing. The people.  And we don't take care of them properly, because the vets are not being taken care of. And we don't take care of them on the field either, because the equipment is old and tired and, you know.
A friend of mine has a son who's been in Iraq for quite a while, you know, going back and forth to different places over the Middle East. And the thing that -- I talked to him -- he's a fine young man and hasn't been wounded badly. I don't think he's been really, you know, very much affected in that way. But he said, the thing that is most discouraging to them over there, soldiers, is when he looks at the other side having better equipment than they do. Because, you know, we give the equipment to people that we think are on our side. And then a bullet's fired and everyone drops their weapons and runs and they come and pick up the weapons. I always talk about the 2,300 Humvees, armor-plated. If our young people would have had those Humvees they wouldn't be walking around without legs and arms right now believe me.  Believe me. But they take them. They just take them. So and he said it's so discouraging for our soldiers when they look and they see the quality of equipment that the other side has. ISIS, but the other side has. And they see it's better than what we have, and it's our equipment that they've taken. It's a very, very sad thing. And those kids, they're incredible people. But they really lose their spirit when they see this kind of thing. Believe me.

Well it's not that they've done some unbelievable things but they're in the process of doing some unbelievable things, believe me. I mean they're very belligerent. They have no respect for our country, none whatsoever. And we have a situation that's a potential catastrophe. We have somebody that truly does have nuclear and nuclear capability. The carrier maybe is not there yet, but it soon will be. We have a man who is I mean he's took over 25 years old I guess or around that, and now it looks like he's getting more and more hostile. And what I would do very simply is say, China this is your baby. This is your problem. You solve the problem. China can solve that problem. And remember this...  It's a big problem. China has virtually totally control over North Korea. But they say they don't because they want to tweak us. Look at our president. They wouldn't even give him stairs to come out of Air Force One.  OK? All right? And they probably say on that, gee we couldn't get them there, you know? When I saw that yesterday, did everybody see that? Where he couldn't get off the plane? So he had to get off on the kind that drop down. But that's really meant for the crew. And so that when they fix the plane, they go up on those stairs. The whole thing is just, it's insane. You know it's interesting with the president because I saw that yesterday with the stairs. He went to Saudi Arabia and the top people didn't greet him right? He went to Cuba and Castro, the brother, was not there to greet him. And I said to myself, you know if that happened, I'd land, I'd hear he's not there to pay respect to the country, not to him, to pay respect to our country. I would say thank you very much folks, that's OK. Close it up, boom. Let's go back to Washington.  I would. I would. Let's go back to Washington. And the scene on the airport tarmac yesterday where this young woman is fighting with these Chinese people, they're saying this is our country, this isn't your country. Wow. Wow. And just so you understand, we are very good to China. And I have great respect for China. I make a lot of money with China. China's great. I don't hold it against them. I hold it against our leaders for allowing this to happen with the trade and the trade deficits.
The trade deficits are massive. $500 billion trade deficits. I hold it against our leaders. I respect China. I mean, our people should be doing that to them. But it doesn't work out that way. So, you know, nothing against China. I have -- the largest bank in the world is a tenant of mine. I sell condos to people in China. I sold to everybody. But -- but that we allow this to happen, and then we land on Air Force One -- and I was saying, in the history of Air Force One, which is long and distinguished, these are the only three times where incidents like this have taken place. Think of it. Lands in Cuba; doesn't have high officials to greet him. Lands in Saudi Arabia, which we protect -- if we didn't protect Saudi Arabia, they would be gone, OK? They would be gone. But lands in Saudi Arabia, and they don't have the high officials to greet them -- the highest officials. And I said to myself, "That's probably the only time in the history of Air Force One where it goes into a country, lands, and you don't have the appropriate officials to greet," right? I really believe that. And then you're talking about a long history. But then, yesterday, they won't give them stairs to get off the plane.

It is hard to believe, yes.

It's such a long answer to that question.  It could go on for days.  phones, iPhones, whatever they were, and just banging the heck out of them. How about the acid wash of the e-mails that didn't mean anything? How about the 33,000 missing e-mails that were acid washed -- acid washed? And Rudy was telling me, nobody does it because it's such an expensive process. OK, 33,000. Now, these e-mails had to do with the wedding, I give that five...  ... the wedding, and the other thing, of course, was the yoga classes, right?  Now, look, look, folks, this is a very sad time, I'm telling you, for justice in this country. It's a very sad time. I've never seen anything like it. Never seen anything like it.  I mean, go a step further. How about, I guess it was July 4 weekend -- the interview takes place on July 4 weekend with no taping, no tape recorder, no nothing, and right on the weekend, when everyone is, like, away or not watching, and then the information that they wanted was released on Friday before Labor Day weekend, Friday afternoon? Everyone's away. No, no, this is a very sad situation that's going on here. This is a very sad situation. I've never seen it like this. We're like a third world country. We're like a third world country. Never seen anything like it. But on November 8th, we will cure this problem.

OK, first of all, it's not like we have a choice, OK? You know, somebody says, "Oh well, we don't have to spend" -- we don't -- we're not going to have a country if we don't have -- this is one of the most dangerous times that we've ever had. Some countries are going -- are -- you look at what's going on with the weaponry being produced or bought by some countries, and it's unbelievable. And we're not keeping up. So this isn't like, "Oh gee, well let's invest it someplace else or let's do this or that." When we build weapons, we're also employing people, remember that. So this isn't just a one-way street. We're employing a lot of people and when we have fighter jets -- I don't know if you saw the documentaries. About a month ago there was a documentary on the fighter jets. They're so old, that we can't get parts for them anymore, so they go to the plane graveyards and the museums where they have the planes in these museums. And they take parts off the planes in the museums. And then we have our young men and women flying these planes and they were complaining. They said, "You know, when I came in, our planes were new and great," and now they're retiring, they're getting ready to leave -- and some of them would like to stay. But they're getting ready to leave, and they look at, you know, using old parts -- literally from plane graveyards and museums is where they get the parts. This is not the United States that we know, folks. This is not the United States that we want. This is not the United States.  So we're going to rebuild our military. We're going to rebuild it with -- with the finest technology in the world, because we have the finest technology. We have the finest technology but we're not paying for it anymore. And frankly, we're paying for too much, and sometimes we're going to companies that are political and we're getting things that aren't as good -- you know this for years -- things that aren't as good as similar equipment that's better for less money. Because they're politically connected, the companies.  So, you know, I'm -- I've spent a tremendous amount of money. We're going to announce very soon how much we've raised. We've raised a lot. But I've spent a lot. I've put -- I put more than $60 million into the campaign and...  ... and I'm going to be spending a lot more over the next two- month period. Think of it, we're down to 63 days. Hard to believe. Who would've thought -- this started on June -- this started on June 16th last year and now we're down to 63 days. And I must say, with your help, and with everybody's help, we're gonna -- we're gonna do something. We're going to make America great again. You know it's about make America great again, so.  So I just want to thank everybody. Really amazing people. And Rudy, I want to thank you very much. And Laura and Ivanka for being here. And of course a truly great general right here, Mike, thank you.  Thank you.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.  It is great to be back in North Carolina, believe me.  We had a fantastic victory in the primaries, and I love the people. And I have property here. I employ a lot of people in North Carolina.  And I pay them a lot of money, I want to tell you that right now. So thank you, everybody. It's a really great honor. You know, two people are here tonight. Eric Trump, do we ever hear of Eric Trump, right?  His wife, Lara, who was born in North Carolina, and she's running and working so hard to win North Carolina November 8th, November 8th.  And I'm sure most of you have never heard of her, but Ivanka Trump, OK?  I. 
Hi, everyone. Wow, this is amazing. No lack of spirit in this room.  Thank you, North Carolina. We are so appreciative for all of you, for the energy, for the enthusiasm. My father is an amazing man. He is a great man. And he will be an unbelievable president.  I promise! My father likes to over-deliver, and he will over-deliver for all of you. So thank you, God bless. Thanks, Dad. L. 
Hey, y'all!  Now, you know I couldn't come home and not say hey to all you nice people here.  It's such an honor to represent a family that I can tell you is one of the best families I have ever met in my life. Now, you know I was raised with good Southern values.  And I could not be part of and speak on behalf of a family and a man that was anything less than incredible. And that is what our next president, Donald Trump, is.  I love, y'all! Thank you, North Carolina!  D. 
Thank you. Oh, boy. It's great. It's great. We are going to make America so, so, so great again.  And in 62 days, we're going to win this state and we're going to win back the White House.  But to do that, you must get out and vote. And that means early voting which begins in North Carolina on October 20th. In other words, start voting, start voting. This is our chance to end years of injustice, corruption and betrayal, and we're going to bring back our jobs, by the way.  This is our chance to solve all of the problems that have gone unsolved for so, so, so many years. Boy, I'll tell you, many, many years of gross incompetence. And that includes bringing back our jobs that have been taken away from us like we're a bunch of babies and moved to other countries that were smarter and sharper than our leaders. That's not going to happy anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.  For how long have people been saying Washington is broken and controlled by special interests? You know that. This is the year we can fix it.  That's because change has come from the outside of our broken system, and it's a very corrupt system at that. We will never fix our rigged system by relying on the people who rigged it in the first place. And that's what you're doing.  We need change. We need change. We will never solve our problems by relying on the politicians who created our problems. So to every American who has been waiting for real change, your wait is over, your moment of liberation is at hand. 

And by the way, we have another room like this outside that's loaded up with people. And outside they have thousands of people also, so that's what's happening.  And we're going to go visit the other room right after this. Is that OK with you people?  I mean, you already have the better location. We have to go and visit them, right? But a vote for Trump is a vote to restore democracy, to heal our economy and to bring millions of jobs back into every forgotten stretch of this country. And boy, that does mean North Carolina!  The change will begin my first day in office. Number one, we're going to eliminate every unconstitutional executive order and restore the rule of law to our land.  Then we're going to begin implementing plans for construction of a wall along our Southern border.  In other words, we will build the wall. 

Who's going to pay for the wall?

Who?

Exactly right.  They will. They will. They will. And you know, they're doing very well. Mexico, honestly, they're doing very well. It's like the eighth wonder of the world, what's going on, massive factories, massive plants are being built. Unfortunately, the bad news is they're being filled up right here, they're being filled up by people from Mexico, not by people from the United States. We've got to change it around folks, I'm sorry, we've got to change it around. And it will change. This will keep out the violent cartels and gangs as well as their drugs that are poisoning our youth and many others, many, many others.  But that's just the beginning. I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to repeal and replace, finally, "Obamacare." It's a disaster.  Under Senate rules, that bill can be passed with 51 votes; 51, not a big deal, especially if we hold the Senate, and I think we will. Remember, they were saying, well, if Trump wins, well, most of those people are up. But I'm higher than some of them, so it's very interesting. I think we're doing very well, I have to tell you. I think we're doing very well. The pundits are extremely upset...  ... meaning a Republican Congress and a Republican president can save Americans from this disaster in a single... <AUDIO GAP> D. 
Very simple. And remember the judges, remember the Supreme Court, justices of the Supreme Court, don't ever forget it, don't ever forget it. And don't ever forget the Second Amendment, which is under siege. And you don't vote for Donald Trump, you're going to see what's going to happen, you're going to see what's going to happen to your Second Amendment. It's not going to be pretty. The National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me, the earliest endorsement they've ever given, I believe.  And you've got to get out. If you believe in the Second Amendment, you've got to get out and you've got to vote.  So it's going to be a very busy first day. I'm going to instruct the Department of State to immediately suspend the Syrian refugee resettlement program...  ... and develop plans for the construction of a safe zone in the region. And the safe zone will not be paid for by us, it will be paid for by Gulf states that have plenty of money, that don't spend it, because we're going to be, think of it, at $20 trillion, double the amount of debt that we had when President Obama first came to office. So we're not going to build it, but we all have hearts, we want to take care of people, we're going to build beautiful safe zones in Syria. And other people are going to pay for it. It's called the OPM theory of money. I love that theory. It's called other people's money.  And remember the power we have, because some of those countries, many of those countries, wouldn't be there for a long period of time, believe me, if we didn't protect them. So we have a lot of power, just remember. We don't use that power, we don't even talk about that power. My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over the large number...  ... over the large number that are already coming into the country, thousands and thousands, through President Obama. She is running to be America's Angela Merkel. And you see what happened to Angela Merkel of Germany. They had a massive defeat recently in the elections, because Germany has had problems like it's rarely seen before. And look at France and look at other countries. It's catastrophic, folks. It's catastrophic. I have friends that go to France every year, they love it. I say, how did you like it this year? They say we don't go to France anymore, France isn't France. Pretty tough. We'll go to North Carolina instead, OK? I think so.  Even our great mayor, Rudy Giuliani, is smiling at that one. But it's true. It happens to be true, Rudy, right? I'm also going to notify all countries that refuse to take back dangerous, illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in this country that they will lose access to our visa programs and many, many more little goodies if they continue to refuse to take back the criminals that have been placed in our country.  Right now they refuse to take them back, gang members, drug lords. We bring them back, they say we don't want them, so we fly the plane right back and they go right back into our country. It's unbelievable actually. This is the measure that is called for under current law, and I will totally enforce it. They will take those people back, believe me.  The secretary of state is required to take this action. But Hillary Clinton refused to do so, just refused, resulting in thousands of criminal aliens being released into United States communities. And by the way, lots of crime and even death. Furthermore, I will direct every agency in government to begin identifying all wasteful, job-killing regulations. And they are going to be removed. This will include lifting the restrictions on American energy. We're going to get your electric bills down.  I will also notify our NAFTA partners of my intention to renegotiate the deal, totally renegotiate the deal. It's got to be a two-way highway, remember that. Right now it's one way. Our jobs leave our country and go someplace else, mostly to Mexico. And we will withdraw from the TPP before it can be ratified. That's going to be another NAFTA, believe me.  We're going to bring these jobs back to North Carolina. And we're not going to allow our companies to leave North Carolina. There will be consequences if they do so. They're not going to move to a country, make their product, sell it without any tax, without any tariff, right into our country, so we end up with a tremendous loss of taxes and tremendous unemployment. We get nothing. We get nothing. And you know what? If they knew there was retribution, if they knew there was consequence, they wouldn't leave, they wouldn't even be talking about it. They wouldn't even be talking about it. Hillary Clinton supported NAFTA. She supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization. And she supported TPP. Remember, she said it was the gold standard. By the way, I don't think anything can be as bad as NAFTA, but TPP is going to be pretty close. It's going to be a disaster and a disaster for this area. She just does whatever her donors and special interests want her to do. That's why she's raising all this money. But we're raising a lot of money. We're putting out a statement tomorrow. We've raised a lot, and a lot of it, unfortunately, came from me. What am I going to do? But a lot of it came from small donors. I think we're average $61 a shot. And we raised millions. We're going to be reporting a very big number tomorrow, so stay tuned.  In a Trump administration, we will negotiate trade deals on behalf of American workers, OK? Not for some other country or some company owned by the special interests and donors that give her money. For the American workers. It's going to be now America first, remember that, and our worker comes first.  We will work to ensure that farmers in North Carolina have the tools they need to thrive at home and compete on a level playing field in foreign markets. And that means negotiating fair trade deals that do indeed put America first. Crucially, I am also going to convene my top generals. We have a great one here. Actually, we have a great two generals here tonight. One of them graduated number one in his class from West Point, just like General Douglas MacArthur, General Douglas MacArthur. Where is that general? Where is he, tough guy? He is -- come here, General. Come here. Number one in his class.  I'm impressed by that, General.  Number one in his class at West Point, two-star general, incredible guy. By the way, did you see? I think it was 88 generals and admirals endorsed Donald Trump today. And these are the fighters, these are the fighters.  These are the warriors. These are the ones, not the political hacks that endorsed Hillary Clinton two or three weeks ago. Did you see them all? They run. You know why? Because we have no place for them. These are the people that have been telling her and Obama and others what to do over the last number of years. How has that worked out, folks? How has that worked out?  So we're going to convene my top generals and give them a simple instruction. They will have 30 days to submit to the Oval Office a plan for soundly and quickly defeating ISIS.  We have no choice. Any nation who shares in this goal will be our friend in this mission. For years, we have been caught up in endless wars and conflicts under the leadership of failed politicians and a failed, totally failed, foreign policy. And this is a policy that could only happen with incompetent people running our country, believe me.  The same people who made every wrong decision in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Egypt, China and Russia are the same people who are now advising who? Hillary Clinton. Who? You said it. The same people are advising Hillary Clinton. So I'm proud instead to have the support of our warfighting generals, active duty military officers and top military experts who know how to win. These are the tough wins, these are the smart ones, and know how to keep us out of this endless war, the war that's been going on forever and draining our country, draining our country. Our infrastructure is a disaster. It is draining our country, our roads, our tunnels, our bridges, our schools, our hospitals, everything. Our infrastructure is a disaster. This is draining us. Hillary Clinton favors what has been called military adventurism, OK? Military adventurism, rushing to invade countries, displacing millions of families and then inviting the refugees into our country, creating power vacuums filled by terrorist groups, like ISIS. And believe me, there are plenty of people that are very closely associated with ISIS, coming into our country. We've got it from within, folks. This could be the great Trojan horse of all time. And in 200 years and 400 years, I don't want people to be reading about it. OK? I don't want people to be talking about it. I believe in a foreign policy based on our national interests that focus on American security and regional stability, instead of using our military to create democracies in countries with no democratic history and couldn't care less about democracy. We're trying to force democracy down their throat. We're spending trillions of dollars and they don't even want it.  We will work to form partnerships overseas based on a long-term strategy of defeating radical Islamic terrorism.  We will first have to reverse the damage inflicted by Hillary Clinton and Obama. Her legacy of failure and his total legacy of failure in the Middle East, Russia, Asia, everywhere, has made Americans far less safe probably than ever before. And they talk Russia, they keep talking Russia. Wouldn't it be nice if we actually could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice? Wouldn't that be a good thing? And with Russia helping us, because they don't like ISIS any better than we do, with Russia helping us to knock out ISIS, wouldn't that be a good thing instead of a bad thing? These people.  As part of our plan to avoid and prevent foreign conflicts, we're going to rebuild our very depleted military.  And you saw this. There was a documentary recently on our jet fighters. They're so old we can't get parts. We get the parts from airplane graveyards and from airplane museums. We take the parts off planes that are in museums and graveyards and we put them on our jet fighters. This is not the United States of America, folks. This is not the United States. This is our ultimate deterrent, however. We will be guided by three very famous words: Peace through strength.  I will ask Congress to eliminate the sequester and immediately reinvest in our military. We have no choice, not like we can say, oh, let's not do it. We have no choice. We have no choice. We have a great country. We want to keep our country strong. We want to keep our country, so we have no choice. Somebody said, isn't there something else you could do? This isn't like, oh, gee, let's pick A, B, C. We have no choice. We have to have, maybe more than ever before, a strong and powerful military. And hopefully, we'll never have to be able to use it. Hopefully, we'll never have to use it.  Right now, we have, amazingly, the smallest Air Force since 1947, the smallest Army since 1939, and one of the smallest navies, listen to this, since 1917.  Like the Cold War, we also need to fight this battle by collecting intelligence and then protecting -- protecting -- our classified secrets.  Hillary Clinton has taught us all how much of a problem we have by cybersecurity. Big thing, cybersecurity. We can't have someone in the Oval Office who doesn't understand the meaning of the word "confidential" or "classified."  Now, I think she probably understands the meaning. Such a serious situation. And by the way, today, much to the consternation of many, the new CNN poll was just released and Trump is winning.  Trump is winning, meaning -- meaning -- you're winning, I'm not winning, you're winning.  You're winning. You're winning. The movement is winning, because this is indeed a movement, folks. When you look at this room and you look at another room in this building and you look at thousands of people outside and you learned about it two days ago, this is not just a normal situation. This is a movement. It's a movement. We're tired of incompetent people running our country into the ground. 

The new revelations about Hillary Clinton from the just-released FBI documents make more clear than ever that she fails to meet the minimum standard for running for public office.  If she applied for a low-level job at the State Department today, just a low-level job, she couldn't even get a security clearance based on what she's done. Her conduct is disqualifying. Let's run through what we discovered in those FBI documents, which, by the way, were released late on Friday just prior to Labor Day weekend, and the interview took place over the July 4th weekend. It's important. And we're hoping Matt Lauer will ask about it on Wednesday night to her when he does the town hall, because she is being protected by the media, by the press like nobody ever has been protected in the history of this country.  Me, on the other hand, it's a total pile-on. Actually, a couple of the media people have said, also in the history of our country there has been nobody hit so hard, so viciously, so violently, and I will tell you so ridiculously unfairly, as Donald Trump. I'm proud to do it for you, folks. I'm proud to do it.  You know the expression, whatever? It's clear from the FBI report that Hillary Clinton lied about her handling of confidential information. She repeatedly told the country that she understood the classified system, then she told the FBI she didn't understand that the letter C meant confidential or even classified in the documents she e-mailed. On 39 separate occasions, 39, she said she couldn't recall details about her mishandling of classified information and she couldn't even name one step she took to make sure foreign hackers couldn't get into her totally illegal server.  Keep in mind that her insecure e-mails included e-mails about the drone program. It's also clear from the FBI report that Hillary Clinton and her top aides knowingly destroyed evidence and covered up their actions. After her private server was revealed last March, her staff deleted all the e-mails and wiped it clean using a software designed to prevent any recovery. She bleached her e-mails. Nobody even heard about it before, and nobody does it because it's a very expensive process. Why would anybody that's getting rid of e-mails that had to do with the wedding? And also, wasn't it -- remember, right -- yoga? Yoga. Yoga and the wedding. Why are you, when you delete 33,000 -- I figure five for the wedding and two for the yoga, right? So that's seven. But why do you acid wash or bleach the e-mails? Nobody even heard of it before, very expensive. Just ask yourself. Then they used hammers to destroy phones so they couldn't be turned over. And by the way, who uses 13 different iPhones in four years? Who? The only people who use that many phones are usually involved in very, very, and I mean very shady activity.  And now she's running for president.  And by the way, did you ever notice, she never talks about policy, she never talks about illegal immigration, she never talks about anything. All she does is a total hit job on Donald Trump. She makes up terms, right? She makes up terms. Temperament -- you know what they did? They got Madison Avenue, that's the big advertising people, and they probably drew, like, 20 terms and they go, oh, let's see, temperament, oh, temperament, yeah, let's use that one. So I have to tell you this, I have to say it, I think my single- greatest asset of any assets I have is my temperament and I know how to win. But it's my temperament, it's my single-greatest asset.  And every time you hear it, just remember this is a phony group of lying people. And tell her we want to hear about your policy on jobs, on illegal immigration. I want to hear what she's going to do to stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina and going to Mexico and other places. OK? Let her tell us.  Because you know what, folks? She doesn't have a clue, not even a clue. People who have nothing to hide don't smash phones with hammers. They don't. People who have nothing to hide don't bleach -- nobody's ever heard of it -- don't bleach their e-mails or destroy evidence to keep it from being publicly archived as required under federal law. And she got rid of these e-mails after Congress, not before, after Congress requested them. Think of that. Can you imagine if I or somebody else did that? Can you imagine if Rudy Giuliani did that? Oh, Rudy, you'd be in such trouble. Poor, Rudy, right? It's unbelievable. Folks, I'm telling you, in history -- in history -- there has never been a situation like is going on with justice and Hillary Clinton. There has never been a situation like is going on with the media protecting Hillary Clinton. 

Let's do better than that. Let's win on November 8th, OK. Let's win.  Hillary Clinton failed to turn over thousands of documents, then tried to shield her criminal conduct by having her chief of staff declare herself to be Hillary Clinton's private attorney. Hillary and her top aides told the FBI and others related in the lawsuit that they couldn't recall or remember, can't remember anything. By the way, if she really can't remember, she can't be president. She doesn't remember anything! She doesn't even remember whether or not she was instructed on how to use e-mails. Were you instructed on how to use it? I can't remember. But that's in addition to the guy who set up the server. Remember him? And he pleaded the Fifth Amendment. What are we going to do with this guy? What happened? He pleaded the Fifth, right? He pleaded the Fifth. Where is he? Where is he? Is he living? Where is he? He pleaded the Fifth and that was the end, we never heard about him again. Boy, I'll tell you, this is like a third-world country, folks. It's terrible. This is really, if we bring it up, this is like Watergate, only it's worse, because here our foreign enemies were in a position to hack our most sensitive national security secrets. No one takes all the risks Hillary Clinton took unless they're trying to cover up massive, massive crimes. Hillary Clinton using, and you know this, she was using State Department to dole out special favors and access to her friends and to her donors, totally special favors. It's called pay for play. One example of pay for play is what the Clintons did in Haiti. So let me stop here for a second and say how much we appreciate the Haitian-American community in Florida and across our country. And we've had a great relationship with that community.  We send our prayers to the many still suffering in Haiti from the earthquake. But while Haiti has suffered, the Clintons and their pals have totally cashed in. Bill and Hillary's brothers have signed housing deals in Haiti and one wound up on the board of a gold mining company. Clinton Foundation donors have seen the Clintons pave the way for their investments. In one deal, Hillary Clinton set aside environmental and labor rules to help a South Korean company, with a record of violating workers' rights, set up what amounts to a sweatshop in Haiti. The facility has produced only a fraction of the jobs it promised and faces reports of wage theft all over the place. People are asking, where did all the money go? This November, it's up to the American people to stop the Clintons from raiding America the way they've raided so many other people and places over the years.  One of the groups in America that have been harmed the most by Hillary Clinton's policies are African Americans. She sees them only as votes, not as people worthy of a better future. It's called vote for me now, I'll do lots of things, and then you get the vote, I'll see you in four years, folks. Liar. Many African Americans have succeeded greatly in this country. We honor and protect, we really do, we protect these total achievements. So many have really, they've just succeeded and I have such respect and admiration for that success. But that includes, and I have to say, lowering taxes, because we're going to do things for them, for everyone, lowering taxes on small-business owners to 15 percent.  We're going to lower taxes on our businesses to keep our jobs. We're going to lower taxes on all businesses so that jobs don't leave our country. But millions of African Americans in our inner cities remain trapped in poverty, joblessness and failing schools. And these are the worst schools you'll ever see. The Democratic Party has run inner cities for 50, 60, 70 and even a hundred years. Forty percent of African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of those under the age of 6. Fifty-eight percent of African American youth are not working, they can't get a job. Approximately 2,900 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year, and nearly 4,000 people have been killed in Chicago since President Obama took office. And that's his home community. Nationwide, think of this, nationwide, African Americans are nearly 60 percent of the murder victims under the age of 22. This is a national crisis. And anybody who fails to understand that is not fit to seek the presidency of the United States.  To those African Americans and Hispanics suffering in crime and poverty, I say very simply give Donald Trump a chance.  What do you have to lose? We're going to bring back your jobs, rebuild your cities, give parents and students school choice. We're going to make your communities safe so you don't get shot when you walk down the street with your child.  What do you have to lose? Nothing! I will not let you down.  We're going to push a new civil rights agenda. We believe every American has the right to a safe community, a great education and government that protects their jobs, not gives their jobs away to foreign countries.  This weekend, I had the honor to join a church service in Detroit at the great Faith Ministries International. It was an amazing experience. You probably saw it. It was a really incredible experience. I will fight for Detroit. I will fight for Chicago. I will fight for Baltimore and D.C. and, by the way, will I be fighting for North Carolina, that I can tell you...  ... and for every part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people.  I didn't need to do this. I didn't need to do this. It's not easy. It's nasty. It's nasty. I talk about the fact that people in the audience 18 years ago are making more money 18 years ago than they're making today in real wages. A lot of people, don't raise your hands, but a lot of people, I hear that. Eighteen years ago, they made more money than they make today. And today, they're working two jobs in many cases, also partly because of "Obamacare," but they're working two jobs and they're working harder. Now, as you get older, maybe it would be nice not to work quite as hard. But I can only say this. I've also gotten older and I'm working a hell of a lot harder than I've ever worked before, that I can tell you.  True. True. I will fight to bring back our jobs, and that means all those jobs lost right here in North Carolina and every other state in our great union.  Let me quote the same passage from the Bible, I read on Saturday, from 1 John 4: No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us, all of us.  Made complete in us. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working toward one people, under one God, saluting one flag.  It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace the new American future. In this future, we will, and we have to, we have no choice, it's just like our military, we have no choice, we have to build it strong again. We have no choice. In our military, we have the greatest people, men and women, on earth. But we have to give them what it takes. We have to back them. And we have to back our police, by the way. We have to back our police. We have to be a country of law and order.  And in this future, we will respect the dignity of all Americans, and that means great jobs, great schools and great, safe neighborhoods.  We will keep our children safe, which requires secure borders, a strong military and supporting law enforcement. Jobs will return, that's right, and the wall will happen.  Prosperity will rise, and new factories and plants will come rushing back to our shores. Government corruption will end. And the State Department will answer to the voters, not Hillary Clinton's donors and special interests.  So few people remember, but Republicans are the party of Abraham Lincoln. And come November 8th, we will once again have a government of, by and for the people.  You must get out and vote. You must bring all of your friends. You must bring everybody. Get out and vote and be vigilant, watch what's happening, watch what's happening, because we're going to win North Carolina, we're going to win a lot of different places. Watch what happens.  Because we're going to take back the White House and we're going to make America proud again. We will make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again. And we will make America great again! Thank you! God bless you! Thank you!  Thank you, everybody.

We want to achieve a stable, peaceful world with less conflict and more common ground. I am proposing a new foreign policy focused on advancing America's core national interests -- so important -- promoting regional stability and producing and easing the tensions within our very troubled world. This will require rethinking the failed policies of the past. We can make new friends, rebuild old alliances and bring new allies into the fold. And we can do that. I'm proud to have the support of war-fighting generals, active duty military and top experts who know both how to win and how to avoid endless wars that we're caught up in, like the one we have right now that just never ever ends, our longest war. Just yesterday, 88 top generals and admirals endorsed my campaign. And these people are fantastic. 
In a Trump administration, our actions in the Middle East will be tempered by realism. The current strategy of toppling regimes with no plan for what to do in the day after only produces power vacuums that are filled simply by terrorists. Gradual reform, not sudden and radical change, should be our guiding objective in that region. We should work with any country that shares our goal of destroying ISIS and defeat radical Islamic terrorism. 
And we're going to form new friendships and partnerships based on this mission and this mission alone. We now have an administration and a former secretary of State who refuse to say radical Islamic terrorism. And unless you're going to say the words, you're never going to solve the problem. It's very simple. 
Immediately after taking office, I will ask my generals to present to me a plan, within 30 days, to defeat and destroy ISIS. 
This will require military warfare, but also cyber warfare, financial warfare and ideological warfare, as I laid out in my speech on defeating radical Islamic terrorism several weeks ago. Instead of an apology tour, which you saw President Obama give over and over again, I will proudly promote our system of government and our way of life as the best in the world, just like we did in our campaign against communism during the cold war. 
We will show the whole world how proud we are to be Americans. 
At the same time, immigration security is a vital part of our national security. We only want to admit people to our country who will support our values and love our people. They have to love our people. 
These are, in fact, the pillars of a sound national security strategy. Unlike my opponent, my foreign policy will emphasize diplomacy, not destruction. Hillary Clinton's legacy in Iraq, Libya, Syria has produced only turmoil and suffering and death. Her destructive policies have displaced millions of people. Then she has invited these refugees into the West with no plan to screen them, including veteran health care costs -- and this was just announced and read over the last number of weeks -- the price of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan will total approximately $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country over and over and over again. Yet after all this money was spent and lives lost, Clinton's policies as secretary of State have left the Middle East in more disarray than ever before. Not even close. Had we done nothing, we would have been in a far better position. Meanwhile, China has grown more aggressive and North Korea more dangerous and belligerent than ever. Russia has defied this administration at every single turn. Putin has no respect for President Obama and has absolutely no respect for Hillary Clinton. Sometimes it seemed like there wasn't a country in the Middle East that Hillary Clinton didn't want to invade, intervene in or topple. She's trigger happy and very unstable. Whether we like it or not, that's what's going on. 
She's also reckless, so reckless, in fact, that she put her emails on an illegal server that our enemies could easily hack, and probably have. Then Clinton's team used a technology called BleachBit, which is basically acid. And this is going to acid wash her emails. Who would do this? And nobody does it because of the expense. Who would do this? They even took a hammer to some of her 13 phones to cover up her tracks in obstruction of justice. These email records were destroyed after she received a subpoena -- remember that word -- after -- after she received a subpoena from Congress to turn them over. If you do that in private enterprise, it's a violation of the law. She did this after receiving a subpoena from the United States Congress. In the FBI report, she claimed she couldn't recall important information on 39 separate and different occasions. She can't even remember whether she has trained in the use of classified information. And she said she didn't know the letter "C" means confidential or at least classified. If she can't remember such crucial events and information, honestly, she's totally unfit to be our commander-in- chief, totally unfit. 
But I have a feeling she did remember and she does know and that also makes her unfit. 
Her conduct is simply disqualifying. She talks about her experience but Hillary Clinton's only foreign policy experience ended up in absolute failure. Everywhere she got involved, things got worse. Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009, before Hillary Clinton was sworn in. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Egypt was ruled by a secular president and an ally of the United States. Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what is now called ISIS was close to being extinguished. It would have never happened. It would have never happened. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions. Fast forward to today. What have we gotten from the horrible, horrible made by Barack Obama and Secretary Clinton? Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations and taking their very valuable oil. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States. And hundreds of thousands of people are dead. In Egypt, terrorists have gained a foothold in the Sinai Desert, near the Suez Canal, one of the most essential what worries anywhere in the world. Iraq is in chaos and ISIS is on the loose. And Iran, by the way, will be taking over Iraq and their vast oil reserves. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West. Iran, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is now flush with $150 billion in cash, being released and released by the United States, plus another $1.7 billion that was just learned about last evening in cash ransom payments. We thought it was $400 million. It turns out that it's now $1.7 billion in cash. In other words, our country was blackmailed and extorted into paying this unheard of amount of money as ransom and our president lied to us. Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. And at best, will go very quickly. This is Hillary Clinton's foreign policy legacy -- failure and death. But that's not all. President Obama and Hillary Clinton have also overseen deep cuts of our military, which only invite more aggression. Really, we will have aggression like you've never seen before and you've got it already happening. Our adversaries are champing at the bit. History shows that when America is not prepared is when the danger is by far the greatest. We want to deter, avoid and prevent conflict through our unquestioned military strength. We have the greatest people in the world. We have to give them the greatest equipment.  Under Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton, defense spending is on track to fall to its lowest level as a share of the economy since the end of World War II. We currently have the smallest army since 1940. The Navy is among the smallest it has been since 1915. That's 100 years ago. And the Air Force is the smallest it's been since 1947. When Ronald Reagan left office, our Navy had 592 ships. When Barack Obama took office, it had 285 ships. Today, the Navy has just 276 ships. The average Air Force aircraft is 27 years old. We have second generation B-52 bombers. Their fathers flew the same plane as they are flying right now. This is not the United States. Our army has been shrinking rapidly from 553,000 soldiers to - in 2009 to just 479,000 soldiers today. That's some decrease. And they want to make it smaller. In 2009, our Marine Corps had 202,000 active marines. Today, it's 182,000. Our ship count is below the minimum of 308 that the Navy says is needed to execute the current missions at a minimal level. President Obama plans to reduce the Army to 450,000 troops, which would hamstring our ability to defend the United States. It takes 22 years on average to field a major new weapon system. In 2010, the United States spent $554 billion on non-war based defending. In the year - and I have to say, currently, we're spending $548 billion, a cut of 10 percent, and that number is going down very rapidly looking into the future, unless I become your president, I have to say.  This reduction was done through what is known as sequester, which you've all heard about, or automatic defense budget cuts. Under the budget agreement, defense took half of the cuts, even though it makes up only one-sixth of the budget. So they put it all in defense. As soon as I take office, I will ask Congress to fully eliminate the defense sequester and will submit a new budget to rebuild our military. It is so depleted. We will rebuild our military.  This will increase certainty in the defense community as to funding and will allow military leaders to plan for our future defense needs. And, most importantly, we will be defended, because without defense, we don't have a country.  As part of removing the defense sequester, I will ask Congress to fully offset the costs of increased military spending. In the process, we will make government leaner and more responsive to the public.  I will ask that savings be accomplished through common sense reforms that eliminate government waste and budget gimmicks and that protect, absolutely protect, hard-earned benefits for Americas. Government-wide, improper government payments are estimated to exceed $135 billion per year. And the amount of unpaid taxes is estimated to be as high as $385 billion a year. We can also reduce the size of the federal bureaucracy through responsible workforce attrition.  That is - that is when employees retire, they can be replaced by a smaller number of new employees. That's the best way to do it. We can also stop funding programs that are not authorized in law. Congress spent $320 billion last year on 256 expired laws. These are laws that are gone. Spent all of that money. Removing just 5 percent of that will reduce spending by almost $200 billion over a ten-year period. The military will not be exempt either. The military bureaucracy will have to be trimmed down. We have to create that strength and sometimes we have to reduce bureaucracy. It just gets in our way.  Early in my term, I will also be requesting that all NATO nations promptly pay their bills, which many are not now doing.  Only five NATO countries, including the United States, are currently meeting their minimum requirement to spend 2 percent of GDP on defense. They understand it. They know they have to do it. They can afford to do it. They have no respect for our leadership. They have no respect for our country. They will do it. They'll be happy to do it. They will be happy to do it.  Additionally, I will be respectfully asking countries such as Germany, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia to pay more for the tremendous security we provide them.  And they'll fully understand. They're economic behemoths. They're tremendously successful countries, but we're subsidizing them for billions and billions of dollars. I think they'll fully understand. Finally, we will have at our disposal additional revenues from unleashing American energy. The Institute for Energy Research cites a short-run figure of as much as $36 billion annually from increased energy production. Tremendous amounts of money.  Tremendous numbers of jobs and tremendous amounts of money. And, your electric bills will go down. There's something nice about that.  Using these new funds, I will ask my secretary of defense to propose a new defense budget to meet the following long-term goals. We will build an active army of around 540,000 as the Army's chief of staff has said he needs desperately and really must have to protect our country.  We now - we now have only 31 brigade combat teams or 490,000 troops and only one-third of combat teams are considered combat ready. That's not good for our country. I actually don't even like saying it, because plenty of countries are watching us right now, but we'll get it shaped up very quickly.  We will build a Marine Corps based on 36 battalions, which the Heritage Foundation notes is the minimum needed to deal with major contingencies. Right now, we only have 23. We will build a Navy of 350 surface ships and submarines as recommended by the bipartisan National Defense Panel. We right now only have 276 ships and it's not enough. And we will build an Air Force of at least 1,200 fighter aircraft, which the Heritage Foundation again has shown to be needed to execute current missions. We now have 1,113. Not enough. We will also seek to develop a state of the art missile defense system.  Under Obama/Clinton, our ballistic missile defense capability has been degraded, at the very moment in the United States history, and its allies, we are facing the strongest and most heightened missile threat that we have ever, ever had. You look at Iran. You look at North Korea. You look at terrorists. We don't even know where to look. We don't know where to look. But, believe me, you can look all over. So we are going to do that. We need a form of shield. We want to protect our country.  As these potential adversaries grow their missile programs, U.S. military facilities in Asia and the Middle East, as well as our allies, are increasingly in range with the United States homeland and we are really absolutely and potentially being threatened. And within two years, we will absolutely have a real threat. They'll be able to reach us so easily the way it's going right now. We propose to rebuild the key tools of missile defense, starting with Navy cruisers that are the foundation of our missile defense capabilities in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. The Obama/Clinton administration tried repeatedly to remove our cruisers from service, then refused to modernize these very old, aging, aging ships. They're old. They're tired. We will start by modernizing our cruisers to provide the ballistic missile defense capability our nation needs. This will cost around $220 million per modernization as we seek to modernize a significant portion of these 22 ships. It will also mean jobs for our country. OK, jobs for our country.  And that is one of the big benefits. It's called jobs for our country, which we desperately need. As we expand our Navy toward the goal of 350 ships, we will also procure additional modern destroyers that are designed to handle the missile defense mission in the coming years. Accomplishing this missile rebuild and our military retooling will be a 50-state effort. Every state in the union will be able to take part in rebuilding our military and developing technologies of tomorrow. In other words, the workers and the jobs will take place throughout the United States.  In addition, we will improve the Department of Defense's cyber capabilities, a new threat, a new problem, very expensive and we're not doing very well with cyber. Hillary Clinton has taught us really how vulnerable we are in cyber hacking.  That's probably the only thing that we've learned from Hillary Clinton.  Which is why one of the first things we must do is to enforce all classification rules and to enforce all laws relating to the handling of classified information. Hillary Clinton put her e-mails on a secret server nobody knew about except for the man that was giving the Fifth, remember? What ever happened to him? Where is he? What happened to him? Where did he go? He pled the Fifth. Never heard - that's the end of him. Aye-yi-yi.  She put her e-mails on a secret server to cover up her pay-for- play scandal in the State Department. Nothing threatens the integrity of our democracy more than when government officials put their public office up for sale. We will also...  We will also make it a priority to develop defensive and offensive cyber capabilities at our U.S. cyber command and recruit the best and brightest Americans.  One of my first directives after taking office will be asking the Joint Chiefs of Staff and all relevant federal departments to conduct a thorough review of United States cyber defenses and identify all vulnerabilities. And we have to do that immediately, including to our power grid, our communications system, and all vital infrastructure.  I will then ask for a plan to immediately protect those vulnerabilities and then fix them. At the same time...  At the same time, we will invest heavily in offensive cyber capabilities to disrupt our enemies, including terrorists who rely heavily on Internet communications.  ISIS is using the Internet to recruit. ISIS is using the Internet to intercept and do all sorts of things to our country. We have to be many steps ahead of them and we will be.  These new investments in cyber security and the modernization of our military will spur substantial new job creation in the private sector and help create the jobs and technologies of tomorrow. That's what we have to do. America must be the world's dominant technological powerhouse of the 21st century. And young Americans, including in our inner cities, should get these new jobs through training, through education. It will happen.  We must also ensure that we have the best medical care, education and support for our military service members and their families, both when they serve and when they return to civilian life.  Our veterans are not being treated well. Our veterans, in many cases, are being treated worse than illegal immigrants, people that come into our county illegally. Our veterans are not being treated well. And, by the way, Hillary Clinton has been doing this for 35 years. Now she says she can do it. She doesn't have a clue. Doesn't have a clue.  Our debt to our men and women in uniform is eternal, always will be. To all of those who have served this nation, I say so strongly that I will never ever let you down.  We will protect those who protect us. It's very simple. We will protect those who protect us.  And we will follow their example of unity. We will work across all racial and income lines to create one American nation. Together, we will have one great American future. Our potential is unlimited.  We will be one people under one God, saluting one American flag.  And, by the way, we love our flag.  America will be a prosperous, generous and inclusive society. We will discard the failed policies and division of the past and embrace true American change to rebuild our economy, rebuild our inner cities. They need help so desperately. And rebuild our country. We will bring back our jobs and we will not let our jobs go to other countries.  We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again, greater than ever before.  Thank you very much and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. 

Wow, thank you, thank you everybody. I know so many people in this room. This is a room I really know the people, there's no question about it.  Mike, I just want to thank you. I've known Mike so long and it's -- I knew he -- when he was a young handsome...  ... beautiful guy. Now, he's a little older but still handsome, right. But, thank you, Mike, it's a great honor having the Conservative Party. And, just so you understand, we are going to play New York. You know, we're not just doing this for fun. We're going to play New York.  And I want to wish the best to Wendy. And, I've watched Wendy over the years and know Wendy and she's a terrific woman and she's going to be fighting hard, and I think she's going to surprise a lot of people. So Wendy, wherever you may be back there -- right there...  ... great luck, you're going to do very well. I want to just thank a few people that are here. I assume that we have Carl Paladino somewhere, where's Carl?  Carl. John Jay, we have, and Joe from NASA, we have. And we have I think Ed -- I don't know, is Ed here? Ed Cox? Where's Ed? Where's Ed?  Where the heck is Ed? Ah, hello, Ed. We're going to play it Ed, okay? We're going to -- we're also going to do those others that you told me about but we won't get ahead. I think we're going to do very well. I think we're going to do very well. We have been, and I have been in love with this state for a long time. And, this is I guess, the first time in a long time, that you really have a competitive person running for president that comes from New York. And, I think we're going to do very well. The polls are looking great. We're playing a lot of states that a lot of people never thought of in terms of a Republican. I don't know, maybe they're just not thinking, I'm as much of a Republican as I think I am. But, states are in play that are never in play for Republicans. And, you probably saw the polls coming in. The recent CNN poll that came out I guess this morning, has us 2 up on Hillary. So...  So I'm a long time New Yorker. I've spent billions and billions of dollars in this state and city. I've produced tremendous numbers of jobs, it's been very good to me also. And, we want to win it. We want to win it, and we're going to help New York. We have to help New York because it's got very difficult problems. Taxes are too high by far. You had a lot of great opportunities to reduce taxes. You had a lot great opportunities upstate that weren't taken advantage of. You know what I mean? When I went around, and when New York is so big in the primary, this was the one that was just boom, we won New York. It was -- it was massive. Just about everything. We won just about every location, every place you could be. And, it was an honor. And, I always tell people you know, winning New York by such a landslide against very capable people in the primaries that was an honor for me. Because nobody knows me better than New Yorkers. And I say it's always bad...  It's always bad, never good, when you lose your state, and you lose it badly. So, we won it in a landslide and just won every area of it. And, with the help of all of the folks I just mentioned and Carl, and I were just talking, we're going to make a very, very heavy play upstate. We're going to do unbelievably well. I see the ads, I don't know how much money they spent on that ad, but I guarantee you the money would have been better spent doing something else. Because, I don't think a lot of people have signed up. But I'm hearing numbers like hundreds of millions of dollars. I've never seen an ad that's been on so much and so long. But, it's a -- it's an ad nevertheless about bringing your business to New York, right. And, you've all seen it, and I just wonder how much business has been got from that ad. Mike, how much business has been gotten from that ad? Would you rather have the ad money or the business that's been got? He'd take the money. Come here, get over here.  This is like old home week. Come here, say something.

Take care of yourself. Nice to see you Rob. Good man, he's going to do very well. He's going to do very, very well. So, over the years I've watched a lot of bad things happen, a lot of good things happen. But I've watched up state, I've watched out on the island, I've watched businesses leave. And, I think one of the reasons I'm standing here instead of somebody else is that frankly, we have really hit a chord with jobs. And, we've also hit it with illegal immigration. Lots of different things, the military. In fact I'm going from here, I'm going over to NBC, we're doing an interview with Matt Lauer, I'm sure that'll be a lot of fun.  It will be a lot of fun. It'll be a lot of fun. I'm sure it'll be very fair.  And, maybe it will be. Hey, he's a good guy. Maybe, it will be, let's see. We'll let you know, right? But, I just -- you know, it's so sad when I toured the state during the primaries and I got to see every part of the state. I was in Syracuse, and I was in Albany, and I was everywhere. And, I saw those great beautiful buildings that were empty and rotting, and falling down from the wind, and the rain, and the snow. And, they're all over the state. And, there's no hope. There's no hope. Other than if I become president because they will be great then.  They will be great. Because, we're going to bring our jobs back to New York. We're going to bring our jobs back to our country. But, we're going to bring our jobs back to New York. What happened is so sad. Those companies have moved to Mexico and other places. But, a lot are moving to Mexico. I tell this to -- I have a friend who builds plants, that's what he does, he builds plants.  building apartment house, maybe he wouldn't know where. But I'll tell you , this is a great guy. I think he's just about the biggest in the world at doing this. And, I say to him, how are you doing, how's business? He said unbelievable. Oh, good, where are you building mostly? Mexico. Oh, that's not so good. That's not so good. Well why? He said Donald what we're doing in Mexico is the 8th wonder of the world. The 8th wonder of the world, think of that. This is a man who builds these massive factories and car plants et cetera. He said it's unbelievable when you see what's happening. I said how are you doing in the United States, where he's from, and where he really would like to be doing the building. He goes, meh, not so good. And, he said but you have to come to Mexico, I just left Mexico by the way. That worked out very well.  Very, well. And, I don't blame Mexico for doing what they're doing, I mean I respect Mexico. I have great respect for the leaders and the President was very, very nice. But you know, our businesses -- we're building -- our business is just pouring -- it's just pouring into Mexico and other places. And then China, in a different way they are making our product and they're dumping it all over. You look at what's happening with our steelworkers. You look at what's happening with our miners, and all of the -- it's just incredible what's happening to our country, and we've got to stop it. And we will stop it. By the way, 100% we will stop it. We're not going to let this continue to happen.  So...  So, I just have to say it's been such an honor to be involved for so long with the Conservative Party, with the Republican Party too. Ed, I couldn't forget you, I would be in trouble if I forgot Ed. But for tonight, the Conservative Party, I have been a supporter -- I've been a supporter of Mike's for a long time. And, we're going to do a great job. You know, it's a little bit like fixing the country, fixing the state. We have to fix it. When I last time -- when I was with the Republicans at the Grand Hyatt, which I built, I told the story of the Wollman Rink, how it was closed for eight years, a total disaster, the city couldn't get it built. They had no clue. They had engineers that came from Miami. You don't want an engineer for an ice skating rink that comes from Miami.  And they couldn't make ice. And they'd try, and they had copper tubing and it was going miles, and miles, and miles, and they'd lay it and the next day it would be stolen. And, then they'd lay it, and it would be stolen. This went on for years' right. They'd lay it down, copper was, and is very expensive. And what happened is I went to Koch, Ed Koch, the Mayor of New York. I said Mr. Mayor, my kids are growing up, I want them to be able to ice skate at least once before they're at a point where they don't want to ice skate anymore...  ... and I see people sitting in the rink all day long. They had two lunch breaks, one in the morning, one in the afternoon, and there was no work. And, hundreds of people would be sitting in this massive slab. And when they poured the slab, they'd pour it in little chunks. Okay a lot of construction people, because I have a lot of friends here. But they'd pour it in little chunks and then they'd come in the next day, and by the time it was all finished they had chunks all over the place, and it wasn't even. And, it was like this, it was a big level. So, when they put the water on, on one side they had like a foot and a half of water, and the other one they had like an inch. And, they didn't know what they were doing. And, I said to Ed Koch, and it went to the newspapers. I said, you know, because they didn't want to let me do it, they didn't want to be stood up, or they didn't want to be shown up. And, they went -- I went to the newspapers, the editorial board who actually, even though I'm much more successful now they don't treat me nearly as well, I'm trying to figure this out.  But they actually did treat me very well, and they said let Trump, do it. And there was a lot of pressure put on and they let me do it. And, I did it in four months. They had spent, I think, probably $20, $21 million. Sometimes I hear $18, I hear $17. Honestly they had no idea what they spent. Whatever it was, they spent a fortune. And, I took it over. And, the first thing I did is I had to get an engineer. So, I fired the guy from Miami because he obviously didn't know what he was doing. And, he recommended actually -- he said why don't you try somebody Mr. Trump from Montreal. I said that's good. And, then I remember I have a friend who was involved with the Montreal Canadians, the ice hockey team. So I called him. I said Edgar, would you do me a favor. Do you have an engineer -- do you have anybody that knows how to make ice? He said oh, I have the greatest guy, and he gave me the name. The guy came to New York, really nice person. And, he said, Mr. Trump, this is terrible. They're using gases, they're using Freon. And, in that pipe, if you have one little pinhole, one little tiny pinhole in miles, and miles of pipe, it'll escape and you can't make the ice. It's a horrible thing. That stuff is meant for refrigerators, not for ice skating rinks. I said that makes sense. You know in the back of the refrigerator right. Not quite, you know 20 miles of stuff. So, he said what you want is brine. I said what's brine? He said well it's basically water with salt in it, so it doesn't freeze. And, you put it in rubber hoses. And you make it very cold, it doesn't freeze, and all of a sudden you have ice. I said boy, that sounds good. So, I thanked him, he drew it up, I went out, I hired some really good contractors. I got rid of all the copper, there was really none left, it was mostly stolen and I put down the rubber hose. Nobody was stealing the rubber hose.  Like, nobody stole the rubber hose. It's amazing, rubber hose doesn't have quite the same allure. But it was rubber hose, clamps at each end. Miles, and miles of rubber hose. And we put it down quickly, and beautifully. We got the right machine that froze the water. And, the water went through the rubber hose. And we checked it for leaks. Because, even if it had leaked it wouldn't have mattered that much, unlike the other. But, I said, I don't want it to leak anyway. So before the concrete went down we checked. Then I got a concrete guy who was great, and we had trucks lined up to Harlem. All the way back to Harlem. One continuous pour because that's the only way to do it. One continuous pour. We laid the rebar, and we had these trucks. They poured for 24 hours straight, it's a big surface, massive surface actually. And it was like perfect. We laser finished it. And then, we let it heal, and we poured water over it. Two inches. They said two inches is perfect. And we turned on the machine and low and behold shortly thereafter, there was ice.  And, amazing. Amazing.  Now it's been a story that's been documented in the Wharton School and the Harvard Business School, and all over. Because it's really -- it's private enterprise. Free enterprise. Private versus government. And there are others. You know, I just did the Ferry point job where this thing was under construction for like 25 years or something, nobody even knows. You know, you ask them how long, and they don't really even know. They have no idea how much they spend. And we got that one open. It's a tremendously big success in the Bronx. But somehow the Wollman Rink, it's just -- it's just a case study. Then we fix up the building which was real easy, and I have it to this day. There's no ice rink in the world that does more business than our ice rink. And it's been tremendously successful and we really, you know, have a good time. And, you know, in a very, very large scale version, we have to do the same for New York State. That's what we have to do. We have to bring back our businesses. We can't let our remaining businesses go. If they go, and they make a product and they want to move to Mexico, and they want to fire all of the employees like they have, in all fairness, been doing, we've very late to the picture. This speech should have been made 15 years ago but I was doing other things. I was one of those companies that was doing well in New York. But, if they want to leave and if they want to make product in a different country and they want to send it over to our borders, and yet fire all our people and not pay taxes and they think they're going to send that over the border. And there's not going to be consequences? Not going to happen. And, once you say look, we hope you enjoy your stay in Mexico, or wherever. It's a beautiful location and you're building a lovely looking plant. But, every time you make your product and you think you're going to send it over, what will be very soon, a very strong border. You will pay a 35 percent tax every single time you send your product over here.  Now, I'll tell you, it's very late in the game unfortunately but, this should have been done years ago, and you would have had nobody leave. Because, two things are going to happen. Number one, they're not going to leave, that's about 95 percent. And, then if they do, that's okay too, because we're going to make a fortune. Okay. But, they're not going to leave. And nobody wants to do this because these people and these politicians are all controlled by the special interests that own the companies that want to move to other countries that make lots of money. And, that's the way it is. So, we're going to bring our businesses back. We're going to make sure that they're going to come back into New York, and New York State. I'm tired when I looked out at Suffolk, and different places on Long Island, when I made that tour, I couldn't believe what I saw. I couldn't believe it actually. I've been here all my life, I couldn't believe it. The devastation that has happened in this state, I couldn't believe it. So, we're going to turn things around, we're going to bring back our jobs. We're going to bring back companies and we're going to start a lot of new companies. But not with an ad. We're going to start it by having low taxes and being smart. And, I just want to tell you folks, I'm being 100 percent serious, you know everybody would say, oh don't bother with New York because Republicans don't win New York. I don't think that we're going to be in that position. I think we're going to win New York, I think we're going to do great in New York.  Don't forget, Hillary, she's not a New Yorker. And, by the way, in Arkansas, and she's really not from Arkansas either. But in Arkansas, what do I have? A 25 point lead. I think I have a 25 point lead. You know she is from Arkansas, but she's really from Illinois.  I'm a real New Yorker folks. I will say this. You will never get more of a New Yorker if you want a President than you're getting with me.  So, I want to thank Mike, I want to thank the Conservative Party. I want to thank everybody in this room. I want to thank my son, Eric Trump who has been working, and his wife Lara.  And, we have so many supporters. But, I just want to say to you, we are going to play so hard. We are going to play so hard and win. We are going to win this state. It's going to shock people. And, by the way, you know if we win this state, it's over. We win, OK. We win.  So, I appreciate the endorsement of Mike, always. I really...  ... appreciate being given this great honor by the Conservative Party. And, I will tell you, Mike, get up here for one second, come here. Come here, come here.  I want, to thank you a man.  We're a hell of a job for this man. Thank you, thank you everybody, thank you.  Thank you very much everybody. Thank you, thank you Carl.

And they are terrific. They have a great future. They will be taking my job someday.  And I will be happy about it. In particular, though, I want to thank Mr. Ron Packard. Where is Ron? Is he here someplace? Yes, he is. Thank you, Ron, fantastic job. And Ms. Deborah Mays, who has really done an incredible job. Deborah, thank you. Thank you. What a great job. For hosting us at this beautiful school. Today we are going to discuss one of the most important issues in this campaign, school choice. But before we do, I want to briefly discuss new revelations about Hillary Clinton's very famous e-mails. According to the FBI report, the FBI did not find that hostile foreign actors -- and think of this, it's so important -- when they went around -- they went around and were so vigilant, at least as far as this. But they found that hostile foreign actors gained access to the personal e-mail accounts of individuals with whom Clinton was in regular contact. And in doing so, obtained e-mails sent to or received by Clinton, on her personal account. And every time she talks about the subject, it's different. She's got to get her act together. Remember, Hillary Clinton was e- mailing about the drone program, among many other extremely sensitive matters. This is yet more evidence that Clinton is unfit to be your commander in chief. By the way, the whole country saw how unfit she was at the town hall last night. Where she refused to take accountability for failed policies in the Middle East that have produced millions of refugees, unleashed horror of radical Islamic terrorism all over, and made us less safe than ever before. Throughout it all, she put the country -- and I mean the entire country -- at risk in order to cover up her pay for play scandals as secretary of state. These include scandals giving up uranium to Russia, doing favors for UBS Bank, and selling contracts to friends and family in Haiti. It's all about hiding criminal enterprise, and that's what it's about. As part of her criminal cover up, Hillary's -- and you know her staff, you know it well. You'd read it about it all the time. You just read about it and it's getting worse and worse. Hillary Clinton's staff deleted and digitally bleached -- which is acid cleaned -- her e-mails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That's after receiving, not before. That's after receiving. She gets a subpoena from the United States Congress and she deletes and bleaches. She also, and her staff, destroyed some of her 13 different phones but this time with a hammer. I've never done that.  Then when she was interviewed by the FBI, she claims she couldn't remember important events, 39 times. She couldn't even remember whether she was trained or handling classified information. Didn't remember anything about it. So if she really didn't remember, that's a problem. And if she did remember, that's a problem. She even said she didn't know what the letter C stood for, whether it was confidential, classified information, or something. All the while, as Hillary and Bill raked in millions of dollars from special interests, the world was falling apart. Hillary Clinton's policies produced ruin in Libya, Iraq and Syria, absolute ruin and death. She failed in Russia. She failed in China. She failed miserably in North Korea. Her policies unleashed ISIS, spread terrorism and put Iran on a path to nuclear weapons -- not to mention the ransom payments -- those ransom payments. Remember two weeks ago it was $400 million in cash. Well, yesterday we found out that in cash it was $1.7 billion. These are unheard of -- this is cash. This isn't wire transfer, this isn't check. This is cash, $1.7 billion. Then you say, is that going to terror or is that going to people's bank accounts? I actually think it's going to both. On top of it all, Hillary Clinton is trigger happy, totally trigger happy. She has raced to invade, intervene, and topple regimes. She believes in globalism, not Americanism. Everybody understands it. Last night she even falsely said, no American died in Libya. Now I heard that, and I said, could she have forgotten so quickly? Then she also falsely said there is no ground troops in Iraq, even though we have 5,000 military personnel there right now. Iraq is one of the biggest differences in this race. I opposed going in. And I did oppose it, despite the media saying, no, yes, no. I opposed going in. And I opposed the reckless way Hillary Clinton took us out, along with President Obama, letting ISIS fill that big, terrible void. But I was opposed to the war from the beginning, long after my interview with Howard Stern. But three months before the Iraq war started I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto, that perhaps we shouldn't be doing it yet, and that the economy -- these are quotes -- that the economy -- this was on live television -- the economy is a much bigger problem as far as the president is concerned. This was before the war started, by a very short distance. Then on March 25th of 2003, just after the war had started, just days after, just a little while after, I was quoted as saying the war is a mess. And yet, more evidence that I had opposed the war from the start. I said, the war is a mess. So I'm -- television, somewhere. July of 2003, I said I would love to see New York City and some of our cities, and some of the states of our nation get some of the money that's going toward Iraq and other places. Because you know, they really need it and they need it badly. I said that. We have numerous other quotes, too, both before and shortly after. Then in August of 2004, very early in the conflict, extremely early in the conflict, right at the beginning, I made a detailed statement in an interview to Esquire Magazine, so right at the beginning. And by the way, numerous honest reporters said, well, Trump may have said at the beginning, and some said he did say at the beginning because they had Cavuto's clip and other clips, but some said, you know, it doesn't matter because right at the beginning he made very strong statements, many years ago. Here's what Esquire Magazine said. This is a quote, absolute quote, Look at the war in Iraq and the mess that we are in. So right after the war started. I would never have handled it that way. Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to step up and to lead the country? So it is simply -- I go, come on. Two minutes after we leave there is going to be a revolution. Pretty good. And the meanest, toughest, smartest, most vicious guy will take over. Well, that's going to be combinations of ISIS and Iran. Iran's taking -- they're taking over, among the richest and largest oil reserves in the world. We let them do it, we let them do it. Should have never been in the war, but we should have never, ever have got out of the way the way Barack Obama got us out, along with Hillary Clinton. Because we opened it up for ISIS. So continued. What was the purpose? This is me right at the beginning of the war, in an article. What was the purpose of this whole thing? What was the purpose? Hundreds and hundreds of young people are being killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and with no legs? Not to mention the other side. All those Iraqi kids who have been blown to pieces. And it turns out that all the reasons for the war are just blatantly wrong. All this for nothing, all this for nothing. This was right at the beginning of the war. Then they see, you know, I see the lies last night -- Donald Trump was always in favor of the war in Iraq. That's why I had to do this. Because the media is so dishonest, so terribly dishonest, and you understand it, you understand and you understand. The media is so terribly dishonest so I had to do this. I ended with, I would have been tougher on terrorism. Bin Laden would have been caught a long time ago, before he was ultimately caught, prior to the downing of the World Trade Center. So this was right at the beginning, and those other statements were before the war even started. And the Howard statement was long before. It was the first time anybody ever asked me about Iraq, and I said, I don't know. I was very -- but that was superseded because before the war, much closer to the war I gave statements that we shouldn't go in. And shortly thereafter, immediately thereafter -- and honestly, a lot of reporters said, hey, right at the beginning he made this statement -- and that statement was a very major story in Esquire Magazine. So I just wanted to set the record straight. There is so much lying going on, and Hillary Clinton lied last night about worse things including her e-mail, but she also lied about this. Had I been in Congress at the time of the invasion, I would have cast a vote in opposition. For years I have been a critic of this kind of reckless foreign invasions and, look, let's face it, interventions -- that's what they are -- that have been a hallmark of trigger happy Hillary and her failed career. She's been a disaster. Here's the bottom line. I was a private citizen. I had no access to briefings or great intelligence surveys, but she did. I had no access to anything, I was a private citizen. Frankly, nobody really cared too much about what I said, I was doing business. I don't even know why I was asked the question. I guess because I was asked the question -- someone else. But I didn't have access to all of the intelligence information that she did and everybody else did. But in Iraq, my judgment was right and hers -- with all of this information and all of this great intelligence information -- was wrong. Along with a lot of other people, in all fairness. It was a big mistake. Totally destabilized the Middle East. It was a big mistake, death, death to so many people. Hillary Clinton is always complaining about what's wrong. I just watched her on the tarmac. She tried to make up for her horrible performance last night. It was a horrible performance. So she went on the tarmac and told more lies. But she's been there -- remember this -- she's always talking about things that she's going to do. But she's been there for more than 30 years and she's never done anything about it, never done anything. And all you have to do is look at New York State, where she ran for senator. She said she will bring jobs back to New York State. It's a disaster. No jobs have come back. Jobs have left New York State, upstate New York and the areas that she was talking about. They are disasters. All you have to do is look at New York State. She said she was going to bring tremendous jobs back. It would be wonderful -- just like she's saying now. She wouldn't know how to bring a job back. She wouldn't have a clue. So it's all talk, but nothing happens. And that's what's going to happen with our country on jobs. And nobody is going to bring jobs back like Donald Trump. I will be the greatest jobs producing president that God ever created, and I say that with my pastor is in the front row. My pastor. Believe me.  So we're on track now to spend -- listen to this -- $6 trillion -- $6 trillion. Could have rebuilt our country twice. All together on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the Middle East. Meanwhile, massive portions of our country are in a state of total disrepair. It's time to rebuild America.  And when I say that, we will also, before we get totally started, we will take out ISIS. Remember that. We have no choice, we have no choice. Too many Americans living in our inner cities have not been included in the American dream. We are a nation, and we're one nation. When any part of our country hurts, our whole country hurts. My goal as president will be to ensure that every child in this nation, African American, Hispanic American, all Americans, will be placed on the ladder to success. And I define that as great education and a great job. The ladder rests on a fundamental foundation. We need safety. There's such danger in our inner cities. There's such danger in our communities. In order to help our children succeed, our first duty is to ensure that every kid in America can grow up in a safe community. You read what's happening, you see what's happening. You can't have prosperity without security. This is the new civil rights agenda of our time, the right to a safe community, a quality education and a wonderful job.  Including for those great students that I met just a little while ago. They're going to do great, they are really going great. You've done such a great job with the education here. Our campaign represents the long awaited chance to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new and strong American future. There's no failed policy more in need of urgent change than our government run education monopoly. And you know in the back that's exactly what it is. They're protecting a lot of people that have a lot of really high paying jobs, and they're not doing the jobs like Deborah. That I can tell you.  And Deborah, they're making a lot more money than you, but we'll have to talk about that later.  The Democratic Party has trapped millions of African American and Hispanic youth in failing government schools that deny them the opportunity to join the ladder of American success. It's time to break up that monopoly. Have to do it.  I want every single inner city child in America who is today trapped in a failing school to have the freedom, the civil right, to attend the school of their choice. Their parents will choose the finest school. They will attend that school. This includes private schools, traditional public schools, magnet schools and charter schools, which must be included in any definition of school choice. Our government spends more than enough money to easily pay for this initiative, with billions and billions of dollars to be left over. It's simply a matter of putting students first, not the education bureaucracy. And that's what's happened.  Let's run through the numbers. At the state and federal level, the United States spends more than $620 billion on K-12 education each year. That's an average of about $12,296 for every student enrolled in our elementary and secondary public... <AUDIO GAP>
... of costs. The other roughly $560 billion spent on K- 12 education comes from the states. We spend more per student than almost any other major country in the world, and we're doing very poorly in terms of A-list. We spend more by far, and we're doing very poorly. So obviously Common Core does not work.  Our largest cities spend some of the largest amounts of money on public schools, it's their biggest cost. New York City spends $20,226 per pupil, Baltimore spends $15,287 per student, Chicago spends $11,976 per student, and Los Angeles it's $10,602. Just imagine if each student in these school systems was given a scholarship for this amount of money allowing them and their family to choose the public or private school of their choice. Wouldn't that be great?  Not only would this empower families but it would create a massive education market that is competitive and produces better outcomes. And I mean far better outcomes. These schools would then cater to the needs of the individual student and family, not the needs of the Teachers Union -- which is a tremendous force and a tremendous barrier to getting done what you want to get done. And they will be a beneficiary, because they will be also working in these great schools. That's what's going to happen. They will come in... <AUDIO GAP>
... school choice. It will be done by re-prioritizing existing federal dollars, we have to re-prioritize. Specifically my plan would use $20 billion of existing federal dollars to establish a block grant for the 11 million school age kids living in absolute poverty. We will give states the option to allow these funds to follow the student through the public or private school they attend. The parents will be so happy. Number one, we'll have safe streets. And number two, they will walk their child to a school that they want to be in. How about that? How is that?  What a difference. What a difference. Compare that to today where people say, how do you do it? How do you do it? Distribution of this grant will favor states that have private school choice and charter roles , encouraging them to participate. They're going to be encouraged to participate. This $20 billion will instantly extend choice to millions and millions more students. A state like Ohio will benefit greatly from these new funds. Ohio is a leader in school choice. Ohio has five private school choice programs that serve over 30,000 students, and 384 charter schools serving 143,844 students. Great job. But the $20 billion is only a beginning. As president, I will establish the national model of providing school choice to every American child living in poverty. That means that we want every disadvantaged child to be able to choose local public, private or charter school, a magnet school, any of these schools that is best for them and for their family, for mom and dad. Each state will develop its own formula, but we want the dollars to follow the student. So important, the dollars will follow the student, and the student will follow the right school. They're going to follow the right school. Nine in ten dollars spent on K-12 education is spent at the state and local level. To achieve this long-term goal, we will have to make this a shared national mission, to bring hope to every child in every city in this land. In our country, in our great country, I will use the pulpit of the presidency to campaign for this in all 50 states. And I will call upon the American people to elect officials at the city, state and federal levels who support school choice. So important. My administration will partner with the leadership of inner city -- and I mean any one of them, any one of them, any inner city in America -- Chicago, Baltimore, Detroit, Cleveland. I Love Cleveland. We love Cleveland.  Got a great experience in Cleveland. That's all I know. And by the way, your police department did a phenomenal job.  And that's any city that is willing to run a pilot program to provide school choice to every child in that community. In Baltimore, for instance, that would mean more than $15,000 in funds available per student. Can't beat that. I'm confident that the politicians will not be able to suppress the will of the people anymore. It's too much, too strong. Eventually they break. The politicians, they always break. They certainly break on trade for our country without making a good deal, right? They break on an hourly basis. If we can put a man on the moon, dig out the Panama Canal, and win two world... <AUDIO GAP>
... can provide school choice to every disadvantaged child in American. If the states collectively contribute another $110 billion of their own education budgets toward school choice, on top of the $20 billion in federal dollars, that could provide $12,000 in school choice funds to every single K-12 student who today is living in poverty. The money will follow the student. That means the student will be able to attend that public, private, charter, magnet school of their choice and each state will develop its own system that works best for them. They can develop systems the likes of which you've never seen, and some states will do better than others. And then they get those people to come to your state. Then other things will be happening. It will be so exciting. It's not really a question of the money because we'll be saving money and having a far better education. As your president, I will be the nation's biggest cheerleader for school choice. I understand many stale, old politicians will resist. There will be a lot of pressure, they'll get a lot of pressure on that. But it's time for our country to start thinking big and correct, once again. We spend too much time quibbling over the smallest things, when we should spend our time dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead. I will also support merit pay for teachers, the great teachers.  So that we reward our best teachers, instead of the failed tenure system that rewards bad teachers and punishes the good ones. And the bad ones are making the same money and sometimes more, than the good ones. At the same time, we have to ensure that jobs are waiting for our young kids when they graduate high school and college. My policy will add millions of new jobs for the future, especially for African American and Hispanic communities, produce such great jobs. My plan to lift restrictions on the production of American energy will not only make home energy bills a lot cheaper -- your electric bills will be a lot less -- but it will add an estimated half a million jobs per year. By reducing radical regulations and over taxation -- we're bringing your taxes way down -- we can bring thousands of new companies into our poorest communities. Crucially, my trade reforms will create a manufacturing revival in America. As you know, all of your companies -- Cleveland is a great example -- but your companies are being ripped out of your community and your people are being left jobless. And your governments being left with taxes. We have nearly $800 billion -- think of it, $800 billion annual trade deficit with the world. We trade with the world. We have a trade deficit of $800 billion. Who is negotiating these deals? Who's doing it?

That's actually very good. Hillary Clinton is absolutely a good answer. Hillary Clinton and people like Hillary Clinton that haven't got a clue, and the clue they do have goes to their donors and the special interests, believe me. That's money coming straight out of the states like Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and Michigan and Maine and so many others. I've seem so many, it's so sad. When I campaigned during the primaries, I saw everything, and it was so sad to see communities that have just been left jobless, where the companies have moved to other countries. Mexico in particular, but other countries. By ending foreign currency manipulation, product dumping and other predatory trading practices, we will be able to open thousands of new plants and factories across America. In driving over today, I saw so many places, factories, 20, 30 years ago that were thriving, and they're just dead, worthless. A real estate person, you wouldn't pay anything, worthless. We'll put them back into action again. The future is filled with limitless possibilities for our nation, and exciting opportunities for our wonderful children. We all have to do and we just have to work -- we all have to work. But we all have to cut our ties with the failed politics of the past. You have to cut your ties, have to cut your ties. These are the people that put us in this situation. They're not going to take us out, they're not going to take us out. That includes  and Hillary Clinton created a lot of the problems. And now she's saying how she's going to take us out. She doesn't have a clue, not even a little clue. We've had such a failed foreign policy with the people we have now. A failed education policy, a totally failed economic policy. And underneath it all a failed political system that rewards politicians for how many donors they have or how many journalists they know, not how many Americans they help to live better and more prosperous lives. That's how they get rewarded. They'll talk to you and talk to you. They'll come into Cleveland, she'll be saying what a wonderful job she's going to do. She'll get your vote. Then she'll say, see you in four years. She might even say, see you in four years, suckers. Because that's what it is.  See you in four years suckers. But the failures of the past are about to end. That ending begins on a very special day for this country, November 8th. Get out and vote. We will have one American nation. We will be one American people who are fighting to give every child in every forgotten stretch of this country the chance to live out their dreams in safety and in peace. That means a safe neighborhood, a quality education, and a secure, high-paying and exciting job. We only have bad jobs. There aren't good jobs any more. Many of our good jobs have left, they're gone. This is how we will rebuild our future. This is how we will make America great again for everyone.

Thank you very much. Oh Jon. Jon is such a great actor and such a great person. He is such a great person. And he's really been with me a long time in a lot of different ways. He's been incredible, so I just want to thank Jon and I hope he makes another movie very quickly because I love his movies. In particular I wanted to thank our host, Tony Perkins, for his years of leadership, and we know all about that.  And we all express our support for Tony as he deals with the aftermath of the terrible floods in Louisiana where two weeks ago I spent some time and I saw some incredible, incredible people.

Right. Thank you. Amazing. Amazing people. One of the greatest privileges of my journey has been the time I've spent with the evangelical community and the support they gave me in those primaries was absolutely incredible. I have to tell you.  All across the nation. A lot of people said, "I wonder if Donald will get the evangelicals?" I got the evangelicals.  I'm gonna make it up to you, too. You watch. There are no more decent voters, or selfless people, than our Christian brothers and sisters here in the United States. So true. I've witnessed that incredible generosity all across this land. <AUDIO GAP>
-- gotten to know so many people. I -- <AUDIO GAP>
-- during my trip to Louisiana where Christian volunteers raced to help their fellow citizens in need. Franklin Graham is an example. He brought the most incredible people and equipment to Louisiana.  And he didn't want anything for it. He's a great man. It's that spirit of giving that we will need to rebuild Louisiana and to rebuild this country, which is in serious, serious trouble.  Yet, our media culture often mocks and demeans people of faith, and you understand that. All the time I hear from concerned parents how much harder it is for a Christian family to raise their children in today's media environment. It is right, isn't it? It is right. Not even close.
Your values of love, charity and faith built this nation.  So how can it be that our media treats people of faith so poorly? One of the reasons is that our politicians have really abandoned you to a large extent. And Hillary Clinton, you can forget about her.  So let me state this right upfront. A Trump administration, our Christian heritage will be cherished, protected, defended like you've never seen before.  Believe me. I believe and you believe it and you know it. You know it. And that includes religious liberty, remember. Remember. I recently had a chance to visit a church in Detroit. Great Faith Ministries International. Stand up if you're a member, that's good. That was a great -- that was an amazing experience.  And the bishop, what a great guy. In my remarks, I spoke -- <AUDIO GAP>
-- about how African American church, and this is all across the country, for centuries have been the conscience of our nation. Their unbreakable faith and spirit overcame some of the most difficult periods in our history, leading us all to a better future. It's very true, amazing. This was such an amazing experience. This is the power of faith. It's the power to heal, it's the power to unite, it's the power to make all of us live better lives, all of us.  Our nation today is divided. Nobody likes to say it, but we're living in a very, very divided nation. It will be our faith in God, in His teachings, in each other that will lead us back to unity.  Each of us here today has a role to play in bringing our country together, united in common purpose and in common values. So let's talk today about some of the things, and these are great things, that we can do together to create the American future for everybody, not just a certain group of people, but for everybody. The first thing we have to do is give our churches their voice back, it's been taken away.  The Johnson Amendment has blocked our pastors and ministers and others from speaking their minds from their own pulpits. If they want to talk about Christianity, if they want to preach, if they want to talk about politics, they're unable to do so.
If they want to do it, they take a tremendous risk that they lose their tax-exempt status. All religious leaders should be able to freely express their thoughts and feelings on religious matters. And I will repeal the Johnson Amendment if I am elected your President. I promise.  So important. Thank you. That's so important. And I must tell you from the heart, this started -- a building of mine in Manhattan, I had 50 pastors in a big conference room. And we actually had 50 pastors, two Rabbis, a couple of priests, we were all talking. And we were there for two hours. And at the end, it was a love fest. We all agreed it was like a love fest. And I said to them -- we were high up in a building on Fifth Avenue. And I said to them, I'd love your support. And I know when I can get support. I'm quite sophisticated. And I know they wanted to give me their total support, 100 percent, just like I had in the primaries. And I said, I really would like your support. And they didn't really know what I was talking about. And I said, what's going on here? They said, well, sir, we can't do that because we would be violating the laws. And I said, what's the punishment? Well, we could lose our tax-exempt status. Which, of course, is a massive penalty. I said, tell me about this. And we sat down and they talked about it. When did it happen? 1954 or so, Lyndon Johnson was having problems. Powerful guy. I actually, as his own  way, have to gain respect for what he was able to do. Can you imagine that this man singlehandedly -- he was having problems with churches. And there was a church in Houston that was giving him a hard time, maybe for a very good reason. And he put in an amendment that basically stopped our great pastors and ministers and others from talking under the penalty of losing their tax-exempt status. So we were looking down onto the sidewalk, and there were people walking on the sidewalk. And I said, so, folks, what you're telling me is those people walking way, way down there on the sidewalk have really more power than you do because they're allowed to express their feelings and thoughts openly and without penalty. And one of the pastors, who I knew very well -- and these are powerful people. These are strong people with magnificent voices and just -- and magnificent hearts, much more importantly. They looked at me and they said, that's actually right, they have more power than we do. We're not allowed to express. And that's when I said we have to start thinking about this. And I thought about it. And then we had a large group of pastors again. I said, I have thought about it. If I become President, we are going to knock out the Johnson Amendment. We are going to do that. And it's not going to be hard.  It's not going to be hard. When you -- when you think from the standpoint of political, you have more than men -- let's say men are 50 percent, women are 50 percent. You're much more than 50 percent added together. And I actually believe that's one of the reasons why you haven't seen Christianity and other religions within the United States going like a rocket ship, like our polls have been going in the last four weeks, a rocket ship. Right? 
I really believe that. Because you're great people. The people that you rely on Sunday and all during the week, they've been stopped from talking and speaking by a law and we're going to get rid of that law -- it's going to get rid of -- we're going to get rid of it so fast. And I'm so proud to say, honestly I don't want to take credit -- <AUDIO GAP>
-- but you had 50 people in that first meeting and many more in the second, I am so proud, I was just telling this to Tony  to say, that was my idea. I figure it's the only way I'm getting to heaven so this is going to very...  The only way. So we're going to get rid of it and we're going to let your great people speak and you're going to see something happen that's going to be very, very good, OK? So important. I hope -- which means, you have to get out and vote. On November 8, you cannot -- you didn't vote four years ago, you didn't vote. You didn't, well you did, a few of you did.  Believe me I know. I look at the stats. You didn't vote. But this time you really have -- and this is your last chance, this is it. I mean we'll never have this opportunity again. So I hope you can get every one of your friends and just get up your family and your friends and get out and vote, OK? November 8.  Thank you. And if you do, we're going to win by a lot. That's not going to even be a close election. If you don't, could be a very unhappy November 8. We're also going to repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.  Which gives the government control over the lives of every day citizens and the numbers are horrendous. Your premiums are going up by 50, 60, 70 percent. The deductible is so high you never get to use it unless you are going to  a very long and very complex bad period. Very, very long. It is a disaster. It's a disaster and everybody knows that, that it's going to die of its own weight anyway. But we're going to get rid of it and we're going to replace it with some great, great alternatives. A much better healthcare at a much lower price.  Hillary Clinton wants to have completely government run healthcare, which would be a disaster for the liberties and freedoms of all America, this is what she wants, that's what she's aiming at. That's what Obama wanted, he didn't quite there. But he got this and you see how bad this has been. One of the biggest issues in this race is going to be the issue of school choice.  And I can't possibly emphasize this enough, millions of poor and disadvantaged students are trapped in failing schools. This education crisis afflicts all communities but none more so than the African American community, none. The Democratic Party has run the inner cities of America for 50, 60, 70 years, some cases over 100 years. Over 100 years. Their policies and their politics and in particular, the politics of people like Hillary Clinton have produced only poverty, joblessness and rising crime. 
When she was running for the Senate in New York State, she said she was gonna produce jobs, jobs, jobs, in upstate New York. It's a disaster. She could have produced jobs. Big thing. Jobs. We're gonna bring back jobs. Gonna -- catastrophe. We've lost tens of thousands of jobs -- she never did a thing. It was all talk, no action. Just like what she's doing right now is all talk and no action. She'll talk and talk and nothing will happen, only bad will happen. But you just have to ask the people in upstate New York -- she won because of them, and she produced absolutely nothing. Jobs left. It's today one of the worst, one of the most depressing places in this country. So just remember that when you hear her talking about jobs. I know jobs. She doesn't know jobs. That I can tell you.  I have outlined a new civil rights agenda for our time. The right to a safe community, a great education and a secure job. And I say to African-American parents, I say to Hispanic-American parents, and I say it with great respect, our inner cities are a disaster. Crime, no jobs, education is the worst, in many cases almost worldwide bad and in many cases actually worldwide bad. I say with great respect, what do you have to lose? It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. You choose Donald Trump, I'm gonna fix the problem. You're gonna have safety, you're gonna have good education, we're gonna get jobs because we're gonna bring our jobs back. Mexico's taken our jobs. So many other places have taken our jobs. What China's doing to us is horrible. We'll have jobs. What have you got to lose? I'm gonna fix it. I'm gonna fix it.  School choice is at the center of this civil rights agenda. And my goal is to provide every single inner city child in American that is trapped in a failing government school the freedom to attend the school of their choice. Competition and the schools will get better and better and better.  And if that means a private school, a religious school or a charter school or a magnet school -- school choice also means that parents can home school their children.  Hundred percent.  Hillary Clinton opposes school choice because she's controlled totally, totally, like a puppet, by special interests. Her policies will force millions of African-American and Hispanic children to remain stuck in failed government schools, leading to higher unemployment and more poverty. The poverty levels in this country nobody will believe. Nobody will believe. My plan will break the government monopoly and make schools compete to provide the best services for our children, including every African-American and Hispanic child in this country. Every single one of them. 
This proposal begins with a $20 billion block grant from the federal government to states to pursue school choice programs. However - that's good, right?  However, because 90 percent of education spending is at the state level, I will campaign to get the states to reallocate another $110 billion of their education budgets to school choice programs. If we do this, that would mean $12,000 in school choice funds for every disadvantaged student in America. What a difference this is going to make. The money will follow the student to the public, private, or religious school that is best for them and their family. In so many ways you're going to have a choice. My administration will partner with the leadership of any inner city, anybody, anybody, in the inner cities of America willing to run a pilot program -- and there will be a lot of them -- to provide school choice to every child in that community. In Baltimore, for instance, that would mean more than $15,000 in funds available per student. As your President, I will be the biggest cheerleader for school choice you've ever seen.  This means a lot of me because I know it can turn things around. Again, the education can't get worse. Common Core, we're going to end it. We'll bring in education . I will fight for every child in this country who deserve better futures. The African-American community has heard my message that I am going to make the inner city safe again, and I'm going to bring back jobs, and I'm going to bring back the great education. Don't be surprised -- remember this, November eighth. Don't be surprised, because we have been given a lot of support over the last three or four weeks, if on November eighth I get more African-American and Hispanic votes than anyone thought possible about a month ago. You see what's going on. They're starting -- people are starting to hear about this and they say, wow, wow. They're liking it. And, again, can't get any worse. It's going to get a lot better, but only if I do. They can't do it. The -- the Democrats they have what they've done is incredible. And Hillary Clinton will be absolutely more of the same, rigid. It'll never change. Remember, 100 years, 70 years, 50, it's not going to change. Not going to happen. Now let's talk about another issue that will define the future of this country for generations to come. The United States Supreme Court.  Earlier this year we lost the great Justice Antonin Scalia. The next President will not only have to fill this seat, but as many as four others. It could even be -- I mean we could end up with a total of five judges by one President. It would be record-setting. Probably be three. Could be four, could even be five. And you pick the wrong people, you have a country that is no longer your country. It will be a disaster. One of the most important issues frankly, other than maybe defense -- because we're going to build up our military. It's so depleted. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to protect your Second Amendment. So many things.
But one of the most important -- some people think it's actually the most important -- is the filling of the seats United States Supreme Court. You see what's happening right now. Essentially it's four and four and you see what -- how bad it is. We're going to pick great judges. I've already put a list of 11 federalist society highly recommended. Got uniform great on these 11 people. And we are going to put truly great people -- maybe we use Judge Scalia as the ultimate example of what we are looking for, OK.  This will determine whether or not we remain a constitutional republic, frankly. That's what's going to happen. I have pledged to appoint judges who uphold the constitution, to protect your religious liberty and apply the law as written.  We reject judges who rewrite the Constitution to impose their own personal views on 300 million-plus Americans. Not going to have that. I've made public a list of judges, as I said, that will guide my selection process. Hillary Clinton has refused to provide such a list, and we brought it up . Let's see a list. If you ever saw the list, you would walk out of here not feeling very well.  Because she knows the extremist judges she would pick would be rejected by the overwhelming majority of the American public, they'd be rejected. Clinton's judicial picks would allow her to completely take over American healthcare, the American economy and Americans' religious liberty. Not to mention your Second Amendment, which is on very thin ice right now, as you know, because of the fact that we're four-four. If they even pick one judge who's wrong, you can probably, as you know it, you can kiss the Second Amendment goodbye. And we don't want to see that. Another issue in this race of great importance to everyone in this room is the issue, of course, of national security. Just today, it was announced that North Korea performed its fifth nuclear test, it's forth since Hillary Clinton became secretary of State. It's just one more massive failure from a failed secretary of State.  She failed at everything. Her policies have also put Iran onto a path of nuclear weapons. And I have to say, made them overnight an absolute power. They were dying three years ago. The sanctions were choking them. They would have fallen, but Obama didn't support people that would have taken over, and I think in this case, probably would have taken over the right way. They had no support. But look at what's happened to Iran in such a short period of time. But remember the ransom payments, remember, it was $400 million two weeks ago. But then they made a mistake. This is cash. Remember, they said they paid cash because they couldn't open a bank account, there was no way of sending it into a checking account?  All lies, just like Obamacare was a big lie, remember? You can use your plan, you can use your doctors, 27 times, right? Twenty- seven times. Use your doctors, use your plan. It turned out to be a lie, it's all a lie. It's all a big lie. It's a rigged system and it's a lie. 
And I'll tell you what -- I'll tell you what. The $400 million, for those that haven't been reading the papers over the last two days, turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash, cash. And I actually said -- they said that money's going to be used for terror. I said, no they don't need it for terror, they've got $150 billion. That's in addition to the $150 billion we gave them back. I said they don't need it. This is going into their Swiss accounts and going into their accounts. They're not going to use it for terror, they have plenty of money for terror. Think of it, $1.7 billion cash. Massive big vats of cash. You saw them. Cartons. Never saw anything like it. I've seen a lot of cash.  Never saw anything like this -- $1.7 billion. Can you imagine these guys? Planes get -- they stop. Remember they wouldn't give back the hostages, they waited there for hours and hours and Obama kept saying, "No, no, this has nothing to do." Even the hostages said they kept us waiting for a certain plane to come in. Not to take them back. Because they were waiting for something. It was this. Just another lie. But can you imagine these people sitting there and they see $1.7 billion in cash. Oy, oy, oy, they think we're stupid. They think we're stupid. They won't be thinking it for long.  At the same time, ISIS is hunting down and exterminating what it calls the nation of the cross. ISIS is carrying out a genocide against Christians in the Middle East. We cannot let this evil continue. Can't let it. ISIS must be destroyed. Have to. Have no choice.  To defeat ISIS, we must use military warfare, but also cyber warfare, financial warfare and ideological warfare. It's a whole different ballgame today than it was 50 years ago and 200 years ago. Different world. We must also establish a bipartisan goal in the United States and an international goal with our allies of defeating radical Islamic terrorism.  Words that our president won't use and words that Hillary Clinton won't use. Just like we won the Cold War by identifying our enemy and building a consensus to guide a long-term strategy, so too must we do the same with Islamic terrorism. By the way, President Obama has allowed Syrian refugees to pour into our country at unbelievable rates and Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more. But it's almost impossible to get a Christian in from Syria. They take others, but they don't take Christians. Very rare, very rare.
So I said that we need to make safe zones in the region. We want to take care of people. But we absolutely cannot allow this potential tremendous threat to continue and we have to stop this. This is going to be potentially a catastrophe for our country. It's from within. This could be the all-time great Trojan Horse. This could be it. You ever notice on the -- you look at the migration trail and you see people with cell phones. Cell phones. And some of the cell phones have the ISIS flag printed on them. And some of them have things far worse than that. Scenes far worse than that. So it was the failed policies, you have to remember, of Hillary Clinton and Obama that unleashed ISIS in the first place. If they did the right thing, you wouldn't be talking about ISIS right now. Now she wants to get rid of them, oh we're going to get rid of them. She tells them already, there will be no boots on the ground. Now even if you even don't want boots on the ground, you don't want to say it. Don't say it. Now they're saying oh, I hope she wins, oh boy would they dream of having her as president, can you imagine? They dream about it every night, having Hillary Clinton. But even if you believe it -- and I can understand that, no boots on the ground, I can understand, you don't say it. Let them think they're going to go through hell, don't say it.  Can you imagine the great General Douglas MacArthur, can you imagine the great General George Patton or one of our great generals that we have today, General Flynn, who's here someplace, I love General Flynn.  But can you imagine these people saying, I mean they're basically giving out the strategy. There will be no boots on the ground. If you don't want that, I fully understand. Don't say it. Don't say it. Can you imagine MacArthur saying, we're going to fight the enemy and we're going to move our troops in about a month. We're going to hit from behind.  We're going to hit them from the front but -- and everything they say turns out to be true. You know I hate to say this because we have a lot of evangelicals in this room, but maybe we shouldn't be so honest when it comes to military strategy, does that make sense?  Hope I didn't lose your vote for saying that.  Just look at what her policies have left us with in Iraq, Syria and Libya. The problem is Hillary Clinton is trigger happy. She really is, she's trigger happy and yet she says, no boots. Which is sort of -- probably will be boots, you know, probably will turn out to be another disaster. Her tenure has brought us only war and destruction and death. She's just too quick to intervene, invade or to push for regime change with people we don't even know who they are. And they take over and they're far worse. This creates the power vacuums that are filled by terrorists and groups like ISIS. My administration on the other hand, will work with any country that is willing to partner with us to defeat ISIS and halt radical Islamic terrorism. And by the way, that includes Russia. If they want to join us on knocking out ISIS, that is just fine as far as I'm concerned.
It's a very imperfect world and you can't always choose your friends. Life, but you can never fail to recognize your enemies and we have some real enemies. Unfortunately for our country, our enemies probably hacked into Hillary Clinton's e-mails. These are the same e-mails she destroyed after receiving a federal subpoena, what's that?  Using software in order to bleach the e-mail so you can never, ever see then. She even mysteriously lost 13 different phones before the FBI got them and many were destroyed with a hammer.

Did anybody ever hit a hammer -- you know, maybe two or three people. But they were just released from prison, those two people.  Can you believe this? Destroyed them with a hammer. The old- fashioned way, I guess.  The other night, in the commander-in-chief forum -- did anybody see that? How did I do?  Good. Well, we have a big debate coming up. Who knows what's going to happen there, but I will say every poll has me winning big league the commander-in-chief. We had...  The polls came out after that event and we won big league. Now, we have a debate coming up. I don't imagine any of you are going to be watching the debate.  I won't, I promise. Hillary Clinton answered questions on her e- mails horribly. That's why she lost, that's why she did so poorly, she was terrible. She was -- honestly, I shouldn't be saying this. She was terrible.  She keeps talking about the e-mails, every time she talks about them, she talks about them differently. It seems each week -- true -- she has like a different answer. But there can be no answer when she deletes 33,000 e-mails, bleaches them so they can never be recovered, an unheard of practice, hammers them into total silence. You know what's happening. You know what's happening. I always say getting away with that will be the single greatest accomplishment of her career. It's true. It's true.  So her answers were bad. They were bad. And a lot of people said it was so totally dishonest. And you know, she was blaming Matt Lauer. I thought Matt Lauer did a very good job. I mean, his questions to me were very tough. But the gentleman who stood up and said, honestly, you should be in prison for what you did. To me, that was the tough one. That was the tough -- that was a tough question. Well, sort of a question in the form of a statement, right?  Clinton is unfit to be our president for many reasons.  True.

She's unfit for many reasons, the biggest of which is her judgment. It's just so bad. It's time to restore honesty and integrity to our government, we have to do it. 
And one more issue -- final issue I wanted to discuss today is the economy and helping those in need. There is no more charitable group in this country than Christians and all of us -- true -- and all of us here today determined to lift suffering Americans out of poverty. We're going to do it. With -- a lot of other people are going to help. As your president, I will pursue a complete reform of our economy to bring back millions of new jobs into our country, millions of new jobs. We've lost our jobs like we're a bunch of babies. They've gone to other countries. They've gone to Mexico. They've gone to many other countries. China's taking massive advantage of us. It's all so easy, believe me. It's all so easy. That includes we will be doing massive tax cuts for working families and for businesses.  It includes, very importantly, the elimination of all needless job-killing regulations.  It includes lifting the restrictions on America energy, which is under siege. I will also renegotiate NAFTA. And if they don't want to renegotiate it so it becomes a two-way highway, not just a one-way highway out of the United States for our companies and our jobs, we will terminate NAFTA. Believe me.  We'll stand up to China and we're going to fight for every last job. It's going to be America first and it's going to be the American worker first.  Crucially, I will also fight for the American family and American family values. The family must be at the center of any anti-poverty agenda. Has to be.  Thank you. Our country just lost one of the great champions for the American family, Phyllis Schlafly, great woman, really great woman.  We send our thoughts and prayers to her loved ones. I will be going to her funeral tomorrow in St. Louis.  Phyllis fought very hard to the very end for a free and prosperous America. She understood that to be truly united as a country, we can't simply turn to government or to politicians. The bedrock of our unity is the realization that we're all brothers and sisters created by the same God. Phyllis understood that. Phyllis understood.  And by the way, Phyllis endorsed me a long time ago when it wasn't necessarily something that was so easy to do. And she was incredible. She was so brave. She endorsed me, and that was not the thing to do at the time. People said, "Trump?" She said, "He's going to win, you don't understand, he knows how to win, he's going to win." They said, "Phyllis, not going to be Trump." And we went boom, boom, boom.
But I will tell you, Phyllis endorsed me at a time when it wasn't necessarily the thing to do, even the popular thing to do. And I will never forget that. That had a huge impact. She was a great, great powerful woman with a tremendous heart. And I look forward to being with her family tomorrow because you really -- that's a celebration. She was 92 years old.  We're all equal and we all come from the same creator. If we remember that simple fact, then our future is truly limitless. There is nothing we as Americans can't do. There's a biblical verse that I've often read and I want to repeat it again because I think it is so important to what we're trying to achieve right now for our country. It's from First John Chapter Four. "No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us." So true.  So true. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.  It's time to stop quibbling over the smallest words and time to start dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead for our country. This is my promise to all of you. Starting in 2017, we will be one American nation. It's time to break our ties with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new American future. Have to do it. Together, we will make America believe again, we will make America united again and we will make America great again. Thank you much and God bless you, thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.

The fact that so many encrusted old political insiders oppose this incredible campaign, this incredible movement, is the best proof you will ever need that we are fighting for real change, not partisan change. Not change for the donors. We're fighting for all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Independents, conservatives, liberals. Even liberals who failed us in this corrupt, corrupt, corrupt system. We're fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. And I will tell you, the campaign contributions coming in are unbelievable. Small donors, $61 a pop.  And I'm spending my money. I am spending a fortune. I am spending a lot. I'm putting up my money. And we're being helped by small donors, and we're setting records. And we have done some job. But I will say if we don't make it -- despite what they say, if we don't make it. They're all saying it doesn't matter. What you've done has never been done before. It's one of the great phenomena. Let me tell you. If we don't make it, it's the greatest waste of time, energy and money that I can ever think of. I will tell you, we don't make it.  But we're going to make it. And polls came out today...  Polls came out today where we're up in Ohio. We're up in Florida. We're up in North Carolina. Up.  We're up nationwide. CNN two days ago, up nationwide. So I just want to tell you folks we're going to get it there. We've been abused long enough. As a country we've been abused long enough. We're also fighting for every region of this country. For every part of Florida and every single pat of America, from Pensacola -- great place -- to Pittsburgh. From Baltimore to Baton Rouge we're fighting for ever last city and every last person in the country, everybody.  Hillary Clinton, and you can see that from those e-mails...  ... is a very dishonest candidate of the past.  Ours is the campaign of the future. In this future we're going to pursue new trade policies that put American workers first. And we're going to keep our jobs in our country.  We're not going to let them take our jobs anymore, folks. We're not going to let it happen. It's been happening long enough. And the reason they don't do anything about it is because the special interests and the donors control our politicians. And they control Hillary Clinton. And it's never, ever going to happen. Take a look at New York state. When she was a senator from New York state, she campaigned by saying that she was going to bring jobs back to New York state. New York state is a disaster. She got elected, she did nothing. She said see you later in four years. She got elected. Take a look at what happened to New York state. The jobs left. The jobs left. Worse than just about any place in the country. She didn't do a thing. It was all talk and no action. And that's what's going to happen here. She's all talk. She's no action. Believe me, she wouldn't know a job if it stared her in the face. I will be...  I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. That I can tell you.  And by the way, is there any place better, safer or more fun to be than at a Trump rally?  Having a good time. So all the people who got NAFTA wrong, and by the way, signed by Bill Clinton perhaps the worst trade deals ever made in the history not of the country, in the history of the world. There's never been a deal so bad as NAFTA. It's a one-way highway out of this country for our jobs and for our money. And we're going to renegotiate that one very quickly, let me tell you.  And then you look at what's happening with China. And they're trying to give us the Trans-Pacific Partnership now, which will be a total disaster.  That Hillary Clinton called the gold standard. Barack Obama wants it. He's pressing it. It will be, and I say this, nothing can be as bad as NAFTA but it's going to be pretty close. So I just want to tell you we're not approving the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Just another catastrophe.  Our trade deficit with the world, with the world, all this work, our trade deficit with the world is almost $800 billion a year. You think we have good negotiators?

We've lost one-third of our manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary Clinton gave us NAFTA. China is manipulating its currency and taking our jobs. That's called cheating. And believe me, I have great relationships with China, done many deals with China, made a fortune with China, have the largest bank in the world, which is from China, as one of my tenants. They're excellent. And they just renewed their lease. I can't believe it. But they just .  Sell lots of condos to China. We can do great with China. And I'm not blaming China. I'm blaming our leaders for being so stupid. 

We're going to stop companies...

... from leaving our country and keep those jobs right here in Pensacola.  But right here in America.  The era of economic surrender is over.  We will also have a very, very strong border.  That stops people and drugs. And those drugs are poisoning our youth and poisoning our people from illegally pouring into our country. And we will build a wall. And Mexico will pay for the wall.  We're losing our jobs, folks. We're losing our jobs. And it's all so easy. When a company makes a product and they fire all their people in the United States and they announce they're moving, as an example, to Mexico. We have to let them know there are consequences when they think they're going to sell their product back into our country. Very simple.  And when we tell them the consequences are a 35 percent tax to cross a now very strong border, when we become president, and the Border Patrol agent 16,500 endorsed Donald Trump. They've never done that before. Never done it before for a presidential candidate.  And when these companies that want to leave and then think they're going to sell their product to us. No problem. Just come across the suckers. You know they call us the suckers. Not going to happen. And let me tell you, when they hear there is a tax to pay to get their product into the country, guess what? They're not going to be leaving, folks, 100 percent. They're never leaving. Right now you're being drained. As you stand here tonight you have companies from this area and from all areas of the country negotiating deals to move out of the United States. Let me tell you something, when I'm president that's not going to happen. So easy. So easy.  So easy. And the reason other people don't bring it up, including your wonderful politicians and including your so-called leader, if you can call him a leader...  If you can call him a leader.  Is that they're controlled by their donors and their special interests. So they don't want it brought up. They'll talk about it, but they're not going to do anything. Me, I'm not controlled, folks. Me, I'm not controlled.  We're going to take care of that. We're going to take care of that situation so quickly and you're going to be so happy and you're going to know you're going to have your company here for a long time, believe me. In this new future we are going to raise your wages. You're going to have competition. People are going to be looking for employees. They're going to be looking. Companies -- companies are going to be looking for people to work in that company. Right now you can't get a job. And all our good jobs are gone. Household incomes are over $4,000 less today than they were 16 years ago. Think of it. My tax, trade, energy, immigration, regulation reform which is a huge problem. We'll get your salaries and your wages up, up, up. Remember...  Many people 18 years ago in this room were making more money in wage. They were making more money than they're making today. And today they're working two jobs. Now they're getting older and they're working harder. It's supposed to be the other way. So we're going to bring your jobs back. You're going to have your choice and you're going to do very well. And you're going to say November 8th was a very important day...  Very important day.

Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Wow, it's a lot of people. Wow. Thank you very much, everybody. I love North Carolina. We're going to have a big victory in North Carolina. In 56 days, we are going to win this state and we are going to win back The White House. Believe me. And by the way, we have thousands of people outside trying to get in. Would anybody like to give up their place? Anybody? No. No. Thank you all very much. It's a great honor. To win back The White House, however, you must get out and vote. And remember that this means early voting, which begins on October 20th. So you have to go out, vote, on the 8th. Or early vote starting from October 20th. This is our chance, in my opinion, it's our last chance. I really believe that. It's our last chance to take it back, to fix our rigged system, and to create prosperity for each and every American. True. It's our last chance, folks, this is it. And after that, we have a whole new different country. And you are not going to like it very much. Our vision of hope stands in stark contrast to my opponent's campaign of hate. Hillary Clinton has been running a hate-filled and negative campaign with no policy, no solutions, and no new ideas. True. By contrast, I have been going around the country offering very detailed plans for reform and change. All of these reform plans are available on our website, and they are extensive. But we have no choice, we have no choice. While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable.  I call you hard-working American patriots who love your country and want a better future for all our people. True. Your mothers and fathers, soldiers and sailors, carpenters and welders, you are lawyers, you are very rich people in some cases. You are at the top of your class, you are at the top of your university, you are professors, you are everybody. You are everybody. You're Democrats, you're Independents, you're Republicans. Above all else, you are Americans and you're entitled to leadership that honors you, cherishes you, and totally defends you and that is what you're going to get if you vote for Donald Trump. Every American is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect in our country. Every American. Whether you vote for me or whether you vote for someone else, I will be your champion in the White House. That, I can promise. Hillary Clinton represents only the insiders, the donors, and special interests. She talks change but why hasn't she given it in 35 years? For 35 years she's been here, why hasn't she given change, she never will in a million years. He won't do it.  I will be speaking more about Hillary Clinton's disqualifying remarks in a minute. But first, let me invite on to the stage some of our wonderful supporters who can tell you themselves what they think of her very horrible statements that she made three days ago. Folks, come on up. 
These are not deplorable people. That, I can tell you. Come on over.

Come on up. I'll pick at random. Who wants to speak? Come on.

Come on.

And don't forget, we're going to protect our Second Amendment. We're going to repeal and replace horrible ObamaCare.  And never ever forget Supreme Court Justices. Never. 
Come on up.

Wow. Wow. That's -- isn't that great? And these people are so representative of everybody throughout our country. So I have some thoughts on Clinton's remarks and I'll be sharing them momentarily. But first, I want to tell you what I'm going to do to make America far better than it is right now and you know there's room to make America great again. We've outlined the detailed plan on trade, on immigration. Build a wall. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build a wall.  And who is going to pay for the wall? Hundred percent. Hundred percent. They may not know it yet but they're paying for the wall. On rebuilding the military, on changing our foreign policy, I've delivered a plan on defeating Islamic terrorism. On reforming our tax code, on unleashing American energy and on providing school choice to every disadvantage child in America. We've released policy after policy, solution after solution every day. We're putting forward new ideas to make your life better. We need change. We have to have change and it has to happen quickly. We're going in the wrong direction like nobody has ever thought possible. The change will start right away the moment I take my oath of office. Right away.  On my first day, we're going to immediately terminate every single unconstitutional executive order signed by President Obama.  Then I'm going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last eight years. All needless job-killing regulations will be canceled.  Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. We're going to lift restrictions on American energy. This will create another half a million new jobs a year and that's just the beginning. On my first day in office, I am going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace, I just said it, ObamaCare.  And this will save another two million jobs. It is a disaster. You see what's happening, your premiums are going through the roof. Your deductibles are so high you'll never get to use it hopefully because the only way you'll use it is it has to be a long slow death. You'll never get to use it. I am also going to propose a massive tax cut to unleash prosperity in every city and every state in our country. Big tax code. 
I'm going to instruct the Department of Commerce to immediately begin a review of all foreign trade practices that unfairly hurt American manufacturing. You know what's happening to your area. I will use every lawful presidential power to achieve relief for our workers and we're going to protect our workers, not like it's been for a long time now. Our workers are going to come first. We are going to protect our workers.  You can read the full seven-point trade plan on my website. But I have to tell you, when it comes to trade, we're going to renegotiate some of those horrible deals and, boy, is NAFTA bad. North Carolina has lost more than 4 in 10 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Think of that, 4 in 10, 40 percent. Bill Clinton signed it and Hillary Clinton supported it and it's been perhaps the worst trade deal ever signed not only in this country but actually in the history of the world. There's never been a deal like this. It's a one-way street out of the United States and into Mexico and other countries. Not going to be that way anymore, folks. Right here in Asheville, you've lost one in five manufacturing jobs since China joined the World Trade Organization, another Hillary back disaster. Hillary Clinton owes all of you an apology and I think you'll get that apology right around the same time that she hands over the 33,000 emails that she delivered.  And by the way, Hillary destroyed her emails after, think of this, after she received a congressional subpoena and nothing happened. She gets a subpoena and she said destroy them. What's going on? They used a special software that most people, even sophisticated people in that world don't even know about. They bleached them. She even made her 13 different phones disappear and some of them, she hammered with a hammer. 
Explain that one. I've never done that.  She obviously had a whole lot to hide including her pay-for-play scandals as secretary of state. Pay-for-play with UBS, with Russian Uranium, with contracts for her friends and her family in Haiti. Nothing is so dangerous to American democracy as when a public official puts their Federal Office up for sale and that's what happened here. That's what happened here. Hillary believes she's above the law but she also believes, and you know this, she really believes that she is above the law and so far she's turned out to be. What happened to our laws? After months of hiding from the press, Hillary Clinton came out and finally told the world how she feels about the people of this country. She said tens of millions of patriotic Americans are a basket of deplorable. How can you be President -- how can you be president for so many people? She talks about people like they're objects, not human beings. She said half of our supporters are irredeemable and not American and describes the other half as having run out of options. What she can't understand or accept is that the great majority of this country now sees right through these lies and deceptions of a failed political establishment and frankly soon to be a failed politician. 
The people want change. They want justice and they want a government that puts the American people first. Whether our supporters have lost a job to a factory that moved to another country or whether a captain in the police department or teacher at a local school, they're united by their deep and sophisticated understanding of how our political system has abandoned the people. Our system, folks, is rigged. It's a word I've been using for a long time and now it's picked up by everybody. They're all using it but our system is rigged. For those who have been hit by hard times, they understand better than anyone that it's Clinton's Wall Street agenda that has crushed the middle class of this country, crushed it. Hillary Clinton spoke with hatred in her heart for these working-class Americans. Absolute hatred in her heart. Could we have a doctor, please? A doctor. A doctor, please. Thank you. A doctor. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Thank you. It is about 100 degrees in here, folks. Thank you so much. We love our supporters, right? Let's give her a hand. Yes. Get some water, please. Water. Kevin, get some water, please. Take your time. Don't worry. We have all the time, right?  That's a great supporter, an unbelievable person, been here for a long time and I just want to thank you. That's right. That's great. Thank you, darling. And whether it was a supporter or not, we're going to take care of him. That's what we're talking about, right? Right? That's what we're talking. And it is pretty hot in here, folks. It's like pretty hot. Hillary looks down on people, all the people, and frankly, these are people that have been so unbelievable for our country. She looks down on the carpenters and the plumbers and the electricians. She looks down on police officers and soldiers and firefighters and everybody supporting our campaign and we have large chunks, we have everybody supporting us, folks, everybody. We have people that have been so successful. We have some that haven't quite been as successful. Let me tell you, we have everybody because everybody knows what a mess our country is in. She looks down on the people who cook your meals, driver your cars and dig the call that power her electricity. What she's done to the minors is unbelievable. Obama and Clinton have destroyed the lives of the minors. That, I can tell you. And the steelworkers our next and you see that coming. She called these Americans every name in the book, racist, sexist, xenophobic, Islamophobic, she said they were not even American, right? Anybody's xenophobic, I don't think so. I don't think so. Never in history has a major party presidential candidate so viciously demonized the American voter. She was attacking millions of moms and dads who love their children and want a better future for all Americans. That's what they want. Watching these parents tell their children about Hillary Clinton's attacks.  Let me ask you this question, is there any place in America more fun to be than a Trump rally, right? Right? No place. No place. Watching these parents tell their children about Hillary's attacks. To every kid in America tonight, I want you to know that your parents are working so hard to make your life better and to make your country better.  It's OK. The cameras are following us that is why. 
See now, the dishonest media will not report that. They won't report it. They say we're bad people. They're not going to report that. 
So here's the story, folks. It's a few people out of thousands. The dishonest media, these people, the most dishonest people you're going to ever find, they won't report that. They won't report the gesture. They won't report anything. But the good news is the cameras follow it. That's the only way I could get the cameras to move so they'll be able to see how many thousands of people we have here, how many thousands of people are outside but the media is disgusting.  Let me tell you honestly, somebody said, what have you learned most. I've learned, number one, how great the American people are and, number two, how dishonest the media is, totally dishonest. Look at that horrible sign. Look at that horrible disgusting sign. Look at that. Look at that horrible disgusting. Did you see the sign? Did you see it? Now let me tell you, nobody's going to report that. They'll say we were rude because we shouted them down. When are we going to get smart, folks? When are we going to get smart? You know the truth is that's why we have a movement. That is why we have a movement because we're not going to take it anymore I'm telling you. We're going to put sanity back into the White House. We are going to have law and order. We're going to have safety. We're going to have jobs. We're going to have education. We're going to protect our Second Amendment. We're going to do a lot of great things. And if I get the chance, I will fight right alongside of our people to deliver a much, much better future for everyone. We are people -- many of the people in this audience that made more money in real wages 18 years ago than they do today and they're working harder today and they've got two jobs. Not going to happen. Clinton made remarks at a high-dollar fundraiser in Wall Street. Her goal is simple, to bully the American voter out of voting for change. The people who rigged the system want to keep things exactly as they are. It's been very good. They want to keep our terrible trade deals and they are terrible. They don't want renegotiation because they're on the other side of a lot of those horrible deals that are moving to Mexico and other places. They like them just fine but it's killing the American job. They want to trap children and failing government schools. They want massive regulation to keep small businesses from being able to compete with other businesses all over the world. Hillary Clinton can never be president of this country, not. 
What she just said shows what a low opinion she has of the American people. We just can't let that happen, folks. We can't let it happen. You got to get out, November 8th, you got to get out. October 20th, you start sending in those votes. You got to do it. Earlier today, I had a chance to spend some time with some of our most amazing Americans. I spent the afternoon with the National Guard Association of the United States. Incredible people. These are the heroes who rescue our people in disasters and who fight in our wars. These heroes are a permanent testament to the courage and character of our nation. We also honor and remember the lives of the service members who have made the ultimate sacrifice. There is no greater love than the love shown by the men and women who have laid down their lives for this country and for its people. Nothing greater than that. Our debt to them is eternal and everlasting. Let me also pause for a moment to recognize Shelby County Police Officer Tim Brackeen who was shot in the line of duty and died today leaving behind a wife and beautiful child. We mourn this terrible loss that we pledge to always stand with our incredible police and law enforcers.  In addition to supporting our law enforcement, we must also ensure that our men and women in the Armed services have the best equipment, resources and tools anywhere in the world. We don't anymore. We don't. We are totally depleted. We have the greatest people on earth but our military services are depleted with the bad equipment, the old equipment, it's a terrible thing that's happened. We must provide them with the best medical care while they serve and the best medical care when they return home to civilian life. The veteran scandals that have occurred under this administration and that have been dismissed by my opponent are a permanent stain on our government. It's just one more way Hillary Clinton only looks out for herself. We must take care of our veterans and that includes giving veterans a card that gives them the right to choose treatment in either public VA facilities or the private doctor of their choice. I have to do it. 
You look at what's happening where people are waiting on line five days, six days, seven days, 10 days and they're dying, 22 suicides a day, 22 suicides a day. Who can even believe that number when a simple solution could be at hand? A prescription, a small operation and they're dying and they're killing themselves and they've done so much for us. It's not going to happen any longer believe me. Just today, we learned that the VA has violated a federal law by failing to make its performance records available to consumers. The scandals never seem to end but they will end when I'm elected president and it will end quickly. 
And Hillary Clinton was quoted fairly recently as saying, the VA is fine, the VA is working. Not working, Hillary. I've got to know so many veterans. Believe me, it's not working. Nothing makes me more proud than to have the support of the men and women who wear the uniform. 
We've received endorsements from 120 generals and admirals. These are the people who know how to keep our country safe. These are our fighters. These are our great, great fighters. So I want to thank each and every one of them and there are more coming. Just today, I was profoundly humbled to gain the endorsement of 13 Medal of Honor recipients, 13.  And I can't even begin to say how much it means to me to have their support. These are truly great heroes. Also today, I was thrilled to announce that Ambassador R. James Woolsey, former head of the CIA, one of the most respected people anywhere in our government, is now a senior advisor to our campaign. This is one of the most respected people. Great man. We are on a mission of change and that includes a new agenda for our inner cities, our inner cities, folks. Our inner cities are a mess. The Democratic Party has run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70 and even a hundred years straight. Democratic politicians like Clinton disrespect these voters and take them for granted. They want the vote and they say see you in four years. They do nothing. Remember Hillary's words super predator. Remember that. Remember those words. Super predator, those are her words. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty including, listen to this, 45 percent of those under the age of six. They live in poverty. Their schools are failing and 58 percent of African-American youths are not employed. Approximately 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. For those suffering and hurting, I say, give Donald Trump a chance. I will fix it. What do you have to lose? You have nothing to lose. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. You can go to war -- and you know this is true, you can go to Afghanistan. You can go to war-torn countries and you will find that it's safer than being in the middle of some of our inner cities. We're going to give security and safety. We're going to give education. We're going to get jobs. We're going to bring our jobs back from Mexico and all of these countries that have been stealing our job. We're going to get people working and we're going to love it. I will fight for Detroit and Chicago and Baltimore and for every neglected part of this nation and they're neglected by the Democrats. And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people, I will do that. And I say to the African-American people, I say it again and again, I will fix it and really what do you have to lose, it can't get any worse, what do you have to lose? I will fix it.  Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag, one American flag.  What's going on today, folks? What's going on today? It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace the new American future. This is a future we will respect. The dignity of all Americans and that means great jobs, great schools and great neighborhoods and it also means safety, it means safety. We will have the steadfast support for America and for its law enforcement. Everybody wants that. Everybody wants it. Jobs will return. Prosperity will rise and new factories will come rushing back to North Carolina and every other state in our country.  Government corruption will end. Honesty will be restored. Republicans are the party and remember these, folks, it's like people forget. We have to embrace it. Republicans are the party of Abraham Lincoln and come November 8th, we will once again have a government of by and for the people.  We will make America prosperous and successful again. We will make America safe again. You'll be able to walk down the street of your inner cities and not be shot. We will make America strong again and we will make America great again.  Thank you, everybody. Thank you. November 8th, get out and vote. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. 

Thank you very much.  It is a great honor and I am very, very grateful being here today in front of so many distinguished people. I've met more generals than I've ever seen in my life.  I like them and they like me. A lost endorsements, I can tell you. My special gratitude to General Ashenhurst and General Hargett and to each and everyone of you. Thank you very much.  Thank you, guys. The National Guard of the United States has defended this nation at war, kept our citizens safe at home and rushed into danger wherever it has threatened our people. Our debt to you is eternal. Yesterday was the 15th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The National Guard was sent to assist in the aid and recovery, and these are serious, serious bad days for our country, the recovery efforts at Ground Zero in New York City -- and I was there and I know what you went through. Since 9/11, there have been 780,000 members of the National Guard deployed overseas, including those with multiple deployments. Right now, 10,000 members of the National Guard are in Iraq, Afghanistan and many other countries all across the world and doing an unbelievable job. Members of the National Guard come from all walks of life, working every kind of job imaginable, and juggle a thousand different challenges as they raise their kids, serve their states and answer the call of duty for their country. I am given the honor to serve as your president, which I think will happen, and we're going to soon find out.  We hope. And if it does happen, I will pledge to give you the resources, the equipment and the support you need and deserve, and that you're not getting.
You will have a true and loyal friend in the White House. Whether you vote for me or whether you vote for someone else, I will be your greatest champion. I will not let you down. I am running to be a president for all Americans, and I've been especially humbled to have the support of so many of our men and women in uniform.  All Americans, you know what I mean. All across this country, I've met so many incredible members of both our military and law enforcement community. There's nothing I've enjoyed more than the time I've spent with our service members, police officers and also our firefighters and paramedics. These are incredible people. They embody the goodness and decency of our country. I was thus deeply shocked and alarmed this Friday to hear my opponent attack, slander, smear, demean these wonderful, amazing people who are supporting our campaign by the millions. Our support comes from every part of America and every walk of life. We have the support of cops and soldiers, carpenters and welders, the young and the old and millions of working class families who just want a better future and a good job. These were the people Hillary Clinton so viciously demonized. These were among the countless Americans that Hillary Clinton called deplorable, irredeemable and un-American. Nobody's heard anything like this. She called these patriotic men and women every vile name in the book; she called them racist, sexist, xenophobic, Islamophobic. She called half of our supporters a basket of deplorable in both the speech and in interview. She divides people into baskets as though they were objects, not human beings. Hillary Clinton made these comments at one of her high-dollar fund-raisers on Wall Street. She and her wealthy donors all had a good laugh, you heard them; they were all laughing. Good, good solid laugh. They were laughing at the very people who paved the roads -- I mean, and these are the roads that she with all of her security, drive on -- paint the buildings she speaks in, and importantly, all of the other functions. I mean, if you think all functions in life, including this auditorium and its maintenance. Hillary Clinton is an insider supported by powerful insiders attacking Americans who have absolutely no political power. Hillary Clinton spoke with hatred and derision for the people who make this country run. She spoke with contempt for the people who thanklessly follow the rules, pay their taxes and scratch out a living for their family; a hard-earned living, too.
While Hillary Clinton lives a sequestered life behind gates and walls and guards, she mocks and demeans hardworking Americans who only want their own families to enjoy a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians. After months of hiding from the press, Hillary Clinton has revealed her true thoughts -- that was her true thoughts. She revealed herself to be a person who looks down on the proud citizens of our country as subjects for her rule. She views it as her rule. Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led to violation of federal law as secretary of State, hide and delete her e-mails -- nobody's ever done anything like that before -- put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lied to Congress and selled  government favors of access through her foundation. It's the same attitude that explains why Hillary Clinton refuses to take accountability for the deadly disaster she helped to create in Iraq, in Syria and in Libya. To this day, she won't take accountability for her role in unleashing -- and that's what happened -- unleashing ISIS across the Middle East or for putting Iran on a path to nuclear weapons. And as far as ISIS is concerned, probably unleashing ISIS here. We better be very, very smart, tough and vigilant or we're going to have big problems. Hillary Clinton believes she's above the law, that she is above accountability and that she is above each and every one of you. Our campaign is about giving voice to the voiceless. It's about representing the forgotten men and women of this country. And they have been forgotten. I'm here to represent everyone, but especially those who are struggling against injustice and unfairness. I am running so that the powerful can no longer beat up on the powerless. I'm running to take on the special interests, the big donors and the corrupt political insiders. And of course, never forget, the special interests. I am running to be your voice. Hillary Clinton is a voice for Wall Street, for hedge fund managers, for top -- really the top ten percent and really the top one percent, and even less than that. Just look at the people funding Hillary Clinton's campaign and paying for her speeches tremendous amounts of money. And you know who she will be representing if she ever won, which I don't believe is going to happen.  In fact, if you look at the recent polls, the ones over the last few days, we're doing very well, that I can tell you.  The disdain that Hillary Clinton expressed toward millions of decent Americans disqualifies her from public service. You cannot run for president if you have such contempt in your heart for the American voter, and she does. You can't lead this nation if you have such a low opinion for its citizens.
Hillary Clinton still hasn't apologized to those she slandered. In fact, she hasn't backed down at all. She's doubled down on her campaign conspiracy and contempt. If Hillary Clinton will not retract her comments in full, I don't see how she can credibly campaign any further. Let's be clear. These were not off-hand comments from Hillary Clinton. These were  remarks not at all. They were given also in an interview and probably a number of interviews. These were lengthy, planned and prepared remarks. It was perhaps the most explicit attack on the American voter ever spoken by a major party presidential nominee. Total disrespect for the people of our country. Clinton was using a very deliberate page from the Democratic playbook, smearing someone with one of the names, you know, those names in order -- really, in order to scare -- and I mean try and seriously scare them out of voting for change. And we're bringing change. She can't bring change. She's been doing this for 35 years. She now talks about change. There's no change. It's going to be more of the same, only worse. It's going to be four more years of Barack Obama, only worse. She just took it to a whole new level by applying it to tens of millions of people. She used these vile words in order to bully and intimidate honest citizens out of seeking government reform. And there will be reform. There has to be reform. People who want their immigration laws enforced -- we have no choice, we have to do that -- and their borders secured, are not racists. They are patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs and families protected. People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. They're not. They are decent American citizens who want to uphold our tolerant values and keep our country safe. People who support police and who want crime reduced and stopped are not prejudiced and are not bad people.  They are concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is lost and oftentimes killed to preventable violence, and it is preventable. Hillary Clinton doesn't have to worry about sanctuary cities or jobs moving overseas where so many are moving. She's protected from her own policies. The policies of Hillary Clinton have produced failing schools, shrinking incomes and the tragic poverty and joblessness in our inner cities. Our inner cities are a disaster.
Our campaign is dedicated to changing these policies to make life better for all Americans.  We are the campaign of school choice. We are the campaign dedicated to improving economic conditions for every African American and Hispanic worker. And we are doing amazingly well with African American and Hispanic workers, you've been seeing that over the last week. We are the campaign that will deliver a government of, by and for the people. This change agenda includes a new foreign and new military policy. We are going to put the failed policy of the past, and there are many, behind us. Ideally, way behind us. We will empower our generals to do the job they were hired to do, and that begins with defeating and destroying ISIS.  Thank you. Instead of endless wars, we want a real plan for victory.  We will abandon the policy of reckless regime change favored by my opponent and we will instead work with our allies to advance the core national security interests of the United States. America first, remember that. America first.  My plan calls for a major rebuilding of the entire military and the elimination of the defense -- and we have to do this so quickly, it's a disaster -- of the defense sequester. It is a disaster.  Have no choice, it is a disaster. It's called depletion. We have been depleted as a military, we can't let that happen. The greatest men and women on Earth, but we have been depleted by what's taken place. In this rebuilding, we will provide our National Guard with the best modern, state-of-the-art equipment in the world, bar none.  The National Guard is often the first and the last line of defense for our people. You were there when the hurricanes and floods and tornadoes strike, always amazes me the courage, the care, the love that you give, amazing. And the danger is beyond belief. You were there to protect civilians in times of unrest, you were there to respond to every natural disaster. You deserve a government that recognizes and honors your contribution and that ensures you have the resources you need to get the job done and to get the job done right.
In a Trump administration, the National Guard will always have a direct line to the Oval Office, and I mean direct.  You will have an administration that never loses sight of the vital contribution you make each and every day. You will have a president who supports, promotes and speaks up for the National Guard at every single turn.  The incredible members of the National Guard have sacrificed life and limb for our freedom, our safety and our country. We will never forget our heroes, their families and the ones they've left behind. Our gratitude is and will be everlasting. We will protect those who protect us and we will follow your example of unity working in common purpose and for a common cause. We will be one people under one God saluting one American flag.  We will rebuild our military and our country. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we together will make America great again. Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. Thank you, thank you.  Thank you, everybody.

 with great people, thank you very much. Thank you.  We are making very big progress, I can tell you that. And in Iowa, virtually every poll has us ahead and we are going to win Iowa.  So I just wanna thank you, I love being back here, I have so many friends in Iowa. And I'll tell you what, I enjoyed the primaries and I'm enjoying this even more, so thank you very much. Thank you very much.  Spending time here really has been one of the -- really -- and I can say this, one of the great, great joys of campaigning. And especially with all of the friends we've developed so it's fantastic.  But here's what's most important. Together, we're gonna win Iowa in November.  To be specific, November 8th, we have to be specific and we're going to win the White House and we are going to make America great again, OK? We're going to make America great again.  The White House will become the people's house that will happen. We will tackle and fix the problems that have gone unsolved for years and believe me, there are many of them.  We're going to fix our crumbling infrastructure, renegotiate our horrible trade deals, they are disastrous. Free children from failing government schools, eliminate government waste and create a fair, simple and efficient tax code to add millions and millions or new jobs, which we need.  Prosperity will rise, poverty will recede and wages will finally begin to grow and they will grow rapidly. If they don't, I'll be very disappointed in myself, I will tell you. This is a campaign about big ideas designed to help everyday people. In recent days, we've rolled out one new policy idea after another on taxes, on school choice -- so important -- on foreign policy, on defeating terrorisms, on rebuilding our military, on veterans care and unleashing American energy. 

Oh we're having a good time, we're having a good time. Go ahead, go ahead. There's always one. 

Thank you, men.

All right you can get them, thank you.

Thank you. Thank you very much. That's great. That's all right. Single person. They'll end up with more publicity than all of you put together.  So we're going to unleash American energy, we're going to put those jobs back like you have not seen in your lifetimes, you have not seen before. By contrast, Hillary Clinton is running a policy-free campaign. She offers no ideas, no solutions, and only hatred and derision. It's true. You saw that. I'm running to be a president for all Americans, Democrat, Republican, independent, everyone. Whether you vote for me -- right?  Whether you vote for me, or whether you vote for someone else, I will be still your greatest champion. Right?  Our support comes from every part of American and from every walk of life. We have the support of cops and soldiers and carpenters and welders and accountant's and lawyers, the young and the old, and millions of working class families all over this nation. We cover everybody. This is a movement like nobody's ever seen before. It really is. It's a movement...  They're considering it a great phenomena. I consider it a great phenomena if we win on November 8th. That's what I consider.  Well my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable, I call you hard-working American patriots who love your country and want a better future for all of our people.  Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as secretary of state, hide and delete her e-mails. I mean, think 33,000 e-mails. And that's just one batch. It's a lot of wedding talk. It's a lot of wedding talk.  Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lied to Congress and sell government favors and access through the Clinton Foundation. It's this attitude of arrogance that explains why Hillary Clinton made 13 phones disappear, including with a hammer - so the FBI couldn't see them and why she bleached her e-mails after a congressional subpoena - that's after the subpoena came. This isn't before. That's after the subpoena came. Now the people who destroyed the e-mails are all pleading the fifth amendment in front of Congress today. How you seen? Have you seen what's going on in front of Congress? Fifth amendment, fifth amendment, fifth amendment. Horrible. Horrible. And will anything happen? That's going to be the question. We're going to find out. Anyone watching today's hearing in Congress knows that Hillary Clinton's actions are far more corrupt that we ever imagined. It's happened today. This is far bigger and a far bigger scandal than Watergate ever was. But with Watergate, we had justice, we had a Justice Department that went after the people. Here's something that just - nobody's ever seen anything like this, folks. What we're witnessing is a first. We've never ever seen anything like this. This is a scandal that threatens national security and that involves a multimillion-dollar pay for play scheme between the secretary of state and her foundation.
Whether it's her e-mails, her disasters in Iraq, Libya and Syria, or her failures on the economy, of which it's been disastrous, Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. She does. You know it. Everybody knows it.  Everybody knows it.  Everybody knows it. In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside her office, she simply lacks the integrity and the temperament to serve in the office. "From the bottom of my soul," he said, "I know this to be true." The policies of Hillary Clinton have produced death, destruction overseas. It's been disastrous. No matter where you look, everything she's touched has been a disaster and produced only failing schools, rising crime, job loss, shrinking incomes, and tragic poverty at home. You want four more years of it?

I had a feeling you might say that.  It's so sad. To see what's going on in our country is so sad. One in five American households do not have a single member in the labor force. Another 14 million people have left the labor force since 2009. And the national debt has doubled to nearly $20 trillion during the Obama years.  I'm running to reverse these policies and to create a future of prosperity for all Americans -- all Americans.  That includes, you'll be happy to hear this, our family farms right here in Iowa -- family farms.  The farmers are being left out in the cold. Family farms are the backbone of this country. We are going to end the EPA intrusion into your family homes and your family farms.  We are going to protect the renewable fuel standard, corn-based ethanol; eliminate job-killing regulations like the Waters of the U.S. rule; and provide desperately needed tax relief.  Our plan lowers the tax rate on family farms, down to 15 percent from 35 percent. And you watch your farms grow. You watch businesses all over the country grow. You watch jobs come back. It will be a beautiful thing. And remember this, the double taxation of family farms at death. You want to leave your farms to your children? It's a disaster because it doesn't happen. So helping to ensure that the family farm, we have to make and we have to continue the tradition in Iowa. We want it to continue to thrive with your family.  And you'll be looking down your family and you'll be proud. OK? So we're going to take care of that. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.  That means we're going to negotiate trade deals to protect our farmers, help them export their goods, and make money doing it. Because the way it is now, it's impossible, and grow family farming in America. We're going to grow the farms.  My first day in office, I'm also going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years.
All needless, job-killing regulations will be canceled.  Millions and millions of new jobs will come pouring into our country. We're going to lift the restrictions on American energy, which means lower electricity prices for our farmers and a half a million jobs a year at least, probably a number much higher than that. And that will just be the beginning. Also, on my first day, I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.  This will instantly save another 2 million jobs at least, probably more than that. By the way, remember Jonathan Gruber? Anybody remember that name?  People forgot, a long time ago but some people remember, I see that. Jonathan Gruber was the architect of Obamacare. And he said -- remember they got him I guess on a cell phone or somehow, but they got him. He said the lack of transparency was essential to passing the legislation and then he talked about, like, and I quote, "the stupidity of the American voter having to do with Obamacare" -- "their stupidity," an exact quote, "the stupidity of the American voter." Now, this is what we get. This is the hateful attitude of insiders like Mr. Gruber and Hillary Clinton. And the voters have had enough of this.  On November 8th, we're taking back our country, November 8th.  Another major reform is going to be school choice. And by the way, we're getting rid of Common Core. We're bringing it local.  Bringing it local.  Totally getting rid of Common Core. Common Core is a disaster. All you have to do is look at the ranking of schools and see that we pay the most per pupil. Not even close. And we're down on the bottom of the list so can't do that. Gonna be a lot of changes, really good changes. I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the public, private, magnet, religious school of his or her choice.  This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty. The poverty is beyond belief. You don't think of it with this country. The poverty is beyond belief. It's time to break up the failed Democratic control over our inner cities and provide real hope and opportunity to every single community in this nation. We have to bring everybody with us, everybody.  Our policies on taxes, trade, regulations and education will grow incomes, boost jobs, and reduce poverty for African-American and Hispanic communities. We have to do it. We have to being these communities into a great system and we have to bring these communities back. We have to do it.
We need a new civil rights agenda for our time, one that promises safe neighborhoods, great education and a secured job. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of African-American children under that age of 6. 45 percent. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Violent crime rose in America's 50 largest cities last year. Homicides are up 50 percent in D.C., and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. And everywhere else . Over 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st of this year, 3,000 people. There's a shooting, on average, every two hours. To those suffering and hurting I say, "What do you have to lose? I'll fix it. Vote for Donald Trump. I mean that. What do you have to lose?"  "It can't get any worse." And I say this to -- I say this to the African-American community: It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. Forty percent poverty, 58 percent can't get jobs, youth. It can't get any worse. I'll fix it, remember that. And Hillary just wants your vote and then she'll say, "See you in four years." OK? Bye-bye. And you see what's happened with our inner cities, where you can't walk down the street without being shot. And you see the crime and all of the problems, what do you have to lose? I will fix it, believe me.  I'll bring back millions of jobs, higher wages and great schools. I will make your communities safe. Safety also means protecting our people from radical Islamic terrorism, all right?  I hate even saying this, but this just happened. New video has just been released showing ISIS -- absolute butchers -- murdering innocent people in what has been called a Syrian slaughterhouse. The victims were dragged, then hung from meat hooks and then their throats were slit. So we have no question, we've got to name the problem, which Hillary and, as you know, President Obama, they won't do. We've got to name the problem and we've got to solve the problem. We've got to solve the problem. This is an evil, sadistic, monstrous enemy and we must keep these killers out of our country.  We know for a fact that ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows -- no question about this -- and to recruit refugees after their entry into our country. My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over and above...  Then you've got to vote for Trump. It's very simple, very simple.  That's a 550 percent increase over and above the Obama administration. Thousands and thousands, 550 percent higher. We have no idea who these people are, where they come from. We have no idea. We have no idea what we're getting into. We have no idea. According to the Senate subcommittee on immigration, her entire plan will bring in 620,000 refugees in a first term and cost $400 billion in lifetime benefits.
Instead of providing free health care and jobs to refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner cities and help struggling Americans get jobs all over our country.  And we all have a heart. We all have a heart. And so I support totally construction of safe zones in the region. But we don't want to pay. We owe $20 trillion -- $20 trillion. Nobody even knows what it means -- $20 trillion. So what we're going to do is we're going to get -- exactly -- we're going to get the Gulf states to pay for it. We'll lead it. We'll get them to pay for it. They've got plenty of money. They just have nobody to ask them: You've got to put up the money. Maybe tell them is a better statement. At the same time as we rebuild our military, we are going to get our allies to pay their fair share.  Only five of the 28 member NATO countries meet their obligations to spend two percent of GDP on defense. I will convene a summit of our European and Asian allies to make sure everyone is sharing in the burden of security. We are paying tremendous amounts of money to secure other nations, to protect and defend other nations. We are going to be made whole. We have no choice. This isn't 30 years ago. This isn't 40 years ago. And I believe properly asked, we'll be in a very good position and they will be very nice about it.  Got to be properly asked.  And we're going to then focus, and we have to focus, on radical Islamic terrorism. We're going to be focused. In all things, it's time to put Americans first. We are doing that.  And we have to start taking care of each other, which we're not doing. Tonight, I'm going to roll out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable, quality childcare for their children. And my daughter Ivanka is going to be involved. She's the one...  ... she is the one that has been pushing for it. So, "Daddy, Daddy, we have to do this." And it's true. She's very smart and she's right. On policy after policy, we're going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans, which we don't have now at all. I'm going to lower your taxes. I'm going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations on business. And in your life, we're going to, as I said, repeal and replace Obamacare.  I'm going to appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.  I'm going to rebuild our very depleted military and take care of our great vets for the first time.  I'm going to save your Second Amendment which is under siege.  And as you know, the NRA endorsed me very early, earlier than anybody else. And I'm very honored by that endorsement. But the NRA, you know what they're doing with our Second Amendment. They're fighting to save it. It's a very tough fight, another reason we need help and we have to have the help from the United States Supreme Court.
And if the wrong justices get appointed, starting with the great Justice Scalia, who unexpectedly passed away, so now we have a tie court. If somebody takes his place, I think you can wave your Second Amendment, as you know it, you can wave it goodbye. You can wave it goodbye. So all of you that are big Second Amendment proponents and believers, you better get out there and you better vote or you're not gonna have much of a Second Amendment.  November 8th. I'm going to stop illegal immigration and I'm going to stop drugs from pouring into our country. And yes we will build a wall and you're right, Mexico will pay for the wall. They will pay for the wall.  We will build a wall, folks. We gotta stop the drugs from pouring in. We've gotta build the wall. The endorsement of all of the border patrol agents, first time they've ever done that. They're endorsing a presidential candidate. They said Mr. Trump, the wall is so necessary. It's a tool, for them. Another tool but one of the most important ones. But they said to me the wall is so important. And when I look at the drugs that pour in, pour in, they're poisoning our youth. You look at New Hampshire, you look at Pennsylvania, you look at Ohio, you look at all the states. One of the biggest things and in some cases their single, biggest problem is the drug inflow -- heroin. We're gonna stop the drugs from poisoning our youth and plenty of other people. We will build a wall. 

And I'm going to -- so importantly -- renegotiate your horrible trade deals, especially NAFTA which is maybe the single, worst trade deal ever made by any country anywhere in the world. Its just a one-way street, right now, it's a one-way street for jobs being ripped out of our country. Leaving the United States going to Mexico and other -- it's a one-way street. We're gonna have a nice, double-lane highway but much of the stuff is gonna be coming in the opposite direction at least for a long while until we can get ourselves even. 

But remember this, Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. So Bill Clinton signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world, folks. I mean its not like -- its in the history of the world. There's never been a worse or a dumber deal for trade including TPP which is a disaster -- but TPP I don't believe will be as bad as NAFTA. And as you know, Hillary Clinton totally wants to approve TPP. She said it's the gold standard, then she heard of speech of mine and she said wow, I better say I'm gonna reject it. But we all know that if she wants, she would sign TPP -- as you know that, you know it -- she'll sign the TPP. And if she signs it, it will be catastrophic for not only Iowa, for our country. So we can't let that happen, we can't let that happen.  We -- in negotiating deals -- are going to do something very, very simple. We're going to put America -- but we're going to put the American worker first, very simple. It's very simple. It's a very simple thing.  We don't think in terms of this country -- it's almost like I was thinking about it over the last couple of weeks, in particular. It's almost like they want these other countries to do so well, I'm saying we are -- because nobody can make deals that badly.
But when you think about it, the reason they are bad is because of the donors, the special interests. In many cases, they own these countries that are leaving the country and ripping us and we're gonna stop it. And it's so easy to stop the globalists. It's so easy to stop. And we're going to stop it. And I'll tell you another thing, Apple and our other major companies, will start making their iPhones, their computers and other products in the United States, not in China, and not all over the world.  Because we don't make things here like we used to anymore. We're going to start making things in our country. We're going to start having the jobs, be jobs that are good for our country.  We're going to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our airports, our schools and our hospitals. American cars will travel the roads, American airplanes will soar the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas. We don't make ships. American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. And American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power our great nation.  American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American metal into the spine of this country, American metal and American steel. I will fight for every neglected part of the nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people, which we're not. We are so badly divided. Imagine what our country could accomplish, if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag, one American flag. 

Thank you very much. And  and leadership on this issue...  ... so very much.  deeply invested in this long before the campaign began, I can tell you that. I'm very grateful to her for her work and efforts, and this proposal which we are going to outlining right way. And it going to make a lot of people very, very happy, a lot of moms very, very happy.  I want to also take a moment to recognize Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference...  ... and a  who's been such a leader and worked so hard with us. So, Cathy, we want to thank you very much.  We're joined  by some amazing members of Congress in our audience. Congresswoman Blackburn  Blackburn, Marsha .  Come on up here.  You worked so hard. Come on. 

Thank you very much. And Mary Jo Ann , can you please stand up?  The  always done a good job. So our campaign is about ideas. We're about solutions to day-to- day problems, problems that . I've traveled all over the country in recent weeks offering detailed plans to make life better for you and for your families, so important to me. I've outlined detailed proposals of providing school choice , involving our tax and regulatory vote...  ...  on American energy, rebuilding our military, changing our foreign policy, fixing our immigration, so important...  ... and keeping our country safe.

Thank you. Right now the politicians have locked our country into endless fights about small and petty things. I'm here to see the nation , and to imagine what we can accomplish if we work together, trust each other and put the needs of our citizens first for a change.  We must break our ties with the failed and bitter politics and policies of the past, and pursue a future where every American is honored, and I mean really honored and respected.  The average  Americans in Washington, D.C. that looks down on everyday hardworking people, and that's what's happening.  Too often those who have power, have disdain for the views, beliefs and attitudes of those who don't have any political power. Those people must put themselves in the shoes of the radio factory worker, the family worried about security or the mom struggling to afford child care -- child care is such a big problem.  We're going to solve that problem. That means we need working mothers to be fairly compensated for their work, and have access to affordable, quality child care for their kids.  We want higher pay, better wages and a growing economy for everyone. These solutions must update laws passed more than a half a century ago when most women were still not in the labor force, or some of them weren't even close. Today nearly two in three mothers with young children have jobs. For many families in our country child care is now the single largest expense. Who would think that? Even more so than housing. While critical, meaningful policy work has been done in this area, my opponent has no child care plan. She never will. They'll never evolve into a plan. They'll never get done anyway. .  Many Americans are just one crisis away from a disaster. A sick kid, a lost job, a damaged home. There is no financial security in our country, especially any more. But that will change under our pro-family, pro-fatherhood . It's pro family. It's pro child. It's pro worker.  the people we have to take care of. And this is what I'm going to be outlining tonight.  Before...  Before going any further, I want everyone watching on TV, and there are a lot of people, right now to go to DonaldJTrump.com to read the full plan in detail. The first part of my child care plan allows for every parent or family in America, including adoptive parents and foster parent guardians to deduct their child care expenses from their income taxes.  I see the women who I just met in the front row are very happy about that. They will finally be able to deduct the average cost of child care for their state from birth through the age of 13. Because of the way the benefit is capped and structured, our plan will bring relief to working and middle class families. The deduction also applies to elder care, capped at $5,000 deduction per year. $5,000 deduction. Importantly, our policy also supports mothers who choose to stay at home, and honors and recognizes their incredible contributions to their families and to our society.  Families with a stay-at-home parent will be able to fully deduct the average cost of child care from their taxes.  Wow.   wow. The congresswomen like the word wow. Makes your life a lot easier right? The low-income individuals who are no net income tax liability, we will offer an expanded earned income tax credit, that's EITC, in the form of a child care rebate.  Working parents will get an expanded EITC benefit that equals up to half of their total payroll tax, a major relief for low-income parents. Low-income parents have it tougher than anybody. This translates to as much as an extra $1,200 in EITC benefits for working families. Yes.  Our plan will ask every parent in America to open up a dependent care savings account. Families can contribute up to $2,000 a year in these accounts completely tax free.  She's very happy about that. Ivanka's very happy about this. Crucially, unlike the flexible spending accounts that exist today, these accounts will be available to all Americans. You won't have to depend on your employer to provide them. And we give family employers -- and this is like right way -- that also contribute to a dependent account, each of which is designed and designated for a specific child, including an unborn child. The money that is put into these accounts can also be spent not only in child care, but also child-enriching activities. See?  They're starting to act up. After hearing it the first time.  That's cute. Additionally, the funds in these accounts do not expire at the end of the year. They don't revert to employers or to the Treasury. Instead the funds rollover so that while only $2,000 can be contributed each year, unspent sums can accumulate and create substantial savings, tremendous savings.  These savings can be used by parents to help give their kids school choice, and will thus contribute to the school choice reforms I outlined last week. A lot of good outlines last week on schools. I grew really popular, let me tell you. The funds will remain in the account until the age of 18. Whatever still remains at that time can be used to help offset the costs of higher education for your child.  For low-income people, the federal government will provide matching funds. If parents contribute $1,000, the federal government will provide a $500 match. To help low-income families reach  and save money, we will put a box on federal income tax forms allowing these parents to have their Earned Income Tax Credit funds directly deposited into their dependent care savings accounts. Pretty simple. These dependent care savings accounts can also be set up to provide care for elderly dependents.  Our plan also includes much needed regulatory reform to incentivize private sector solutions. The reforms offered by our plan will create a new market for our  child care solutions. But to make sure these solutions are available -- especially to low- income and rural communities -- we must reduce regulations that favor large institutional care facilities. You know what I'm talking about.   special interests . We will allow the states to make decisions that are right for them. In this era of sharing economy we want parents to be able to access low-cost, competitive and innovative solutions at the click of a button, including services like nanny sharing. Our plan will also cover care provided by relatives and grandparents. Our plan includes incentives for more employers to offer on site child care as well. We want the employers to get involved now then start getting involved bigly. Right?  You will start liking your employer a lot more.  This would also be a good solution for many working parents, and can save them up to 30 minutes in commute time. That's a lot. Currently only seven percent of employers provide this service, not very much. Our plan will expand tax deductions for employers, allowing companies to pool resources and provided shared care. This is, I think, so important. Provide shared child care services and remove needless requirements that have prevented employers from using the credit. The requirements are so onerous that they never get to use it, even though in many cases they would like to. Finally, our plan offers a crucial safety net for working mothers whose employers do not provide paid maternity leave. This solution will receive strong bipartisan support. Do you agree with that? Do you think, when you go to the other side they'll be OK? . Look at . And we'll be completely self- funding ...   tax-free  fraud and improper payments in the Unemployment Insurance Program. We can provide six weeks of paid maternity leave to any mother with a newborn child whose employer does not provide the benefit.  This maternity leave will be paid straight out of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. And again, the safety net will be completely paid for through savings within the program. We have more reforms and solutions in our child care plan. And you can review them all on the website. On Thursday I will outline my family economic plan, which is completely paid for, through economic growth and proposed federal budget savings. It's going to be something special like this country hasn't seen in many, many decades.  Together our tax, trade, regulatory and energy policies will add trillions and trillions of dollars in new deficit-growing growth. These are the kinds of solutions I want to bring to the White House as your president. It's time to free ourselves from the baskets that politicians try to put us into and hold ...  ... and instead we can work together...  <OFF-MIKE>  Thank you very much. Thank you. And .  While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable, I call you hardworking American patriots who...  <OFF-MIKE> 

Thank you. It's time to end the rule of special interests and to begin the rule of the American people. That's what it's all about...  It's time to stop fighting over the smallest words and to start dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead for our incredible country.  It's time to start believing in America again.  Together. I promise you, together we will make our country strong again. We will make our country prosperous again. We will make our country great again. Greater than ever before.  <OFF-MIKE> 

...Thank you so much.  That's so nice.  Isn't he a great guy.  He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it.  It's just not fair.  And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party.  Also, also the people of Iowa.  They have something in common.  Hard-working people.  They want to work, they want to make the country great.  I love the people of Iowa.  So that's the way it is.  Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job.  The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused.  Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible.  In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray.  Very simple.  Politicians are all talk, no action.  They are all talk and no action.  And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican.  And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians.  Because they let the president get away with absolute murder.  You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--.  Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare.  A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster.  People are closing up shops.  Doctors are quitting the business.  I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy.  He said, I have more accountants than I have patients.  And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business.  And he was very successful guy.  But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website.  I have many websites, many, many websites.  They're all over the place.  But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie.  It was a filthy lie.  And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted?  Does anyone do anything?  And what are the Republican politicians doing about it?  He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect.  You can keep your plan.  And you've all heard that hundreds of times.  That's like the real estate location, location.  I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location.  But you have heard this about Obamacare.
And it's disgraceful.  It's a big, fat, horrible lie.  Your deductibles are going through the roof.  You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage.  And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore.  So it's a real, real disaster.  And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare.  And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence.  And it's got to be a beauty.  Who can build better than Trump?  I build; it's what I do.  I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings.  Fences are easy, believe me.  I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border.  They're walking.  The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country.  It is so terrible.  It is so unfair.  It is so incompetent.  And we don't have the best coming in.  We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks.  You can certainly have terrorists.  You can certainly have Islamic terrorists.  You can have anything coming across the border.  We don't do anything about it.  So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.

Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it.  Benghazi.  Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi.  Everything is Benghazi.  What happens?  Nothing.
IRS, e-mails.  I get sued all the time, okay.  I run a big business.  You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful.  I have done so many deals.  Almost all of them have been tremendously successful.  You'll see that when I file my statements.  I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay.  But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president.  Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many--  Look, Obama, what did he do?  No deal.  He never did a deal.  He did one deal.  A house.  And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay.  He got away with murder.  But I can tell you, e-mails.  IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost.  If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost.  So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it.  Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great.  But they talk about it.  And then you have a president that does an executive order.  Nobody even heard of an executive order.  He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders.  Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier.  Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it.  We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed.  So we have to do something.
Jobs.  China.  I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese.  One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it.  And I know them.  And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with.  We can't believe how stupid your leaders are.  They tell me that.  Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not.  But they tell me that.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries.  The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation.  I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing.  They are devaluing down to nothing.  And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete.  And they're getting away with it.  And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it.  But you watch this devaluation of all of it.  I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing.  And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good.  You know it's one of those things, sounds good.  Be very careful.  Be very careful.  Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing.  They have it set.  Don't forget another thing.  China became the number one economic power a year ago.  That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen.  It was absolutely unthinkable.  So it happened and it's very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq.  We got nothing.  They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us.  Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us.  We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS.  By the way, you know how they formed.  They took the oil.  And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil.  So now ISIS has the oil.  And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take.  So we get nothing.  We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have.  I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people.  And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military.  But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast.  We have incompetent people.  They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing.  It needs money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security.  'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security.  I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid.  Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security.  And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue.  It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons.  We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast.  We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon.  We can't do it.  Can't do it.  We cannot let that happen.  You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria.  We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria.  Think of this.  We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government.  Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay.  But think of it; think of it.  ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall.  There are so many things; there are so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about  too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear.  Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles.  You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable.  The power.  And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens.  We've never had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there.  We're trying to do the right thing.  We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us.  You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find.  The same thing is happening there.  And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals.  And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals.  They're taking it out.  Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals.  So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker.  It's really, really crazy.

So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country.  If we don't--  The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed.  Bridges are collapsing all over the country.  The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai.  I go to various different places.  I go to China.  They are building a bridge on every corner.  They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff.  They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen.  They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell.  But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen.  And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes.  The place is falling apart.  You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart.  And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt.  So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place.  This is inside, not outside.  And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen.  In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor.  I said it's not an honor; they're just smart.  But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad--  I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails.  You know the guard rails.  The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always  bent, rusted and horrible.  Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes.  Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years.  Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works.  Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening.  Somebody made a lot of money on that.  They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again.  We have to rebuild our country.  And we have a long way to go.  We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money.  Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it.  We owe it to other countries.  They're the ones that hold the debt.  And then we give them money.  We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies.  I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know--  No American company comes to see and comes to bid.  It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them.  What are we doing; why aren't they paying us?  Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing?  I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea.  You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea.  Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up.  We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people.  Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details.  We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed.  He failed.  I mean I liked him.  Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away.  The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away.  What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time.  It's not fair because it was a long t--  That doesn't work.  But more importantly, he choked.  Something happened to him in the last month.  He had that election won.  And let me tell you something.  That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal.  I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it.  Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament.  And there are many of them.  Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that.  You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president.  I really do.  I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true.  So you can't have Romney.  He choked.
You can't have Bush.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing--  You know they copied it.  I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing.  But I said it.  I was the one that said it first, and I mean it.  The last thing we need is another Bush.  Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that.  But he's totally in favor of Common Core.  He's very, very weak on immigration.  Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love.  I say, what?  Come for love?  You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals.  They're coming for love?  They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love.  And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama.  I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama.  'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months.  And then he appointed Justice Roberts.  And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts.  And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes.  So you can't have Jeb Bush.  And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win.  So Mitt and--you just can't have those two.  That's it.  That's it.  It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important.  And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters.  And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet.  He is reading it.  I mean give me a break.  Everything is read.  You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk.  And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters.  But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing.  No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that.  But we have to do something about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations--  I built an incredible company.  And you'll see that.  An incredible company; a wonderful company.  I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing.  And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix.  We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country.  And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody.  And everybody can be covered.  I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out.  Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster.  Nobody knows.  As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports.  And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump.  I just got the best hotel in North America.  I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one.  I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress.  Right on Penn.--  The  Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama.  Do you believe that?  And everybody wanted it.  So, I can't believe it myself.  But it's going to be fantastic;
and so many other things.
I know what needs to be done to make America great again.  We can make this country great again.  The potential is enormous.  And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.
Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much, everybody.  Thank you.  Beautiful.  Thank you.

Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor. Id like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.

Its time to shake the rust off Americas foreign policy. Its time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people and American security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.

That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.

America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot to be proud of.

In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.

History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.

They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obamas line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.

We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.

They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.

First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. Hes crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.

Were rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
Im the only one  believe me, I know them all, Im the only one who knows how to fix it.

Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and Ive been talking about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so.

They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia.

The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no choice.

The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.

Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they cant depend on us. Weve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that weve never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.

And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.

All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Irans treatment of our ten captured sailors  so vividly I remember that day. In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.

When the other side knows youre not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win  you just cant win. At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. Youve made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.

Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.

President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what weve done. All of the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very importantly, the United States itself.

Weve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now theyre starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, theyre just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they dont take us seriously anymore. The truth is they dont respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.

Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. Its called no respect. Absolutely no respect.

Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth  fourth place? The president of the United States making this trip  unprecedented  comes in fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.

The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the power over China, economic power, and people dont understand it. And with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with North Korea, which is totally out of control.

He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. Weve let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obamas goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.

Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, weve lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, were bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, were watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.

Were a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. Weve made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.

We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS, and were in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama wont even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.

Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clintons failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.

Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 oclock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We dont blockade, we dont bomb, we dont do anything about it. Its almost as if our country doesnt even know whats happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I become president.

To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. Its going to be a great and reliable ally again. Its going to be a friend again. Were going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.

Were getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the waters edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties  Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.

This is how we won the Cold War and its how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.

First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but its also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.

In this, were going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.

We should work  thank you.

We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. Its now two-way. And remember, us and all were doing, they have to appreciate what weve done to them. Were going to help, but they have to appreciate what weve done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea where these people are coming from. Theres no documentation. Theres no paperwork. Theres nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.

A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because you take a look at whats happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked  one of the true great catastrophes.

And then theres ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I wont tell them where and I wont tell them how. We must...

... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We tell everything. Were sending troops. We tell them. Were sending something else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpredictable starting now.

But theyre going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if Im elected president. And theyll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.

Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at whats happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.

And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 2011. Our military is depleted and were asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.

We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.

But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we waste. Were also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.

This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us an edge.

This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. Our veterans...

Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and that will happen under the Trump administration.

Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania  and this was a horrible time for us  were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.

And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didnt do it

And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on Americas core national security interests. And the following will be my priorities.

In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our friends.

We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests.

Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both countries.

Some say the Russians wont be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we cant make a deal under my administration, a deal thats great  not good, great  for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. Its as simple as that. Were going to find out.

Fixing our relations with China is another important step  and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.

We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. Theyre not supposed to be doing it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. If need be, thats whats going to have to happen.

After Im elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATOs outdated mission and structure, grown out of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.

I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must only fight to win.

I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.

Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton weve had the exact opposite  a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.

After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a complete and total disaster.

I will also be prepared to deploy Americas economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selectively and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the sand. Believe me.

However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.

And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. Thats why I also look and have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect rsums but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. We have to look to new people.

We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly dont know what theyre doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New York Times or being watched on television.

Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.

These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, thats what we want. We want them to be our allies.

We want the world to be  we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.

To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. Americans.

Americans must know that were putting the American people first again on trade.

So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.

No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.

And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.

NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has emptied our states  literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our jobs. And Ive just gotten to see it. Ive toured Pennsylvania. Ive toured New York. Ive toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their manufacturing is gone.

Never again, only the reverse  and I have to say this strongly  never again; only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.

Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.

I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests. I will be Americas greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.

The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. America will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must make America strong again.

And always  always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make America truly wealthy again. And we must  we have to and we will make America great again. And if we do that  and if we do that, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.

A hand with little fingers coming out of a stem. Like, little. Look at my hands. Theyre fine. Nobody other than Graydon Carter years ago used to use that. My hands are normal hands. During a debate, he was losing, and he said, "Oh, he has small hands and therefore, you know what that means." This was not me. This was Rubio that said, "He has small hands and you know what that means." Okay? So, he started it. So, what I said a couple of days later ... and what happened is I was on line shaking hands with supporters, and one of supporters got up and he said, "Mr. Trump, you have strong hands. You have good-sized hands." And then another one would say, "You have great hands, Mr. Trump, I had no idea." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "I thought you were like deformed, and I thought you had small hands." I had fifty people ... Is that a correct statement? I mean people were writing, "How are Mr. Trumps hands?" My hands are fine. You know, my hands are normal. Slightly large, actually. In fact, I buy a slightly smaller than large glove, okay? No, but I did this because everybody was saying to me, "Oh, your hands are very nice. They are normal." So Rubio, in a debate, said, because he had nothing else to say ... now I was hitting him pretty hard. He wanted to do his Don Rickles stuff and it didnt work out. Obviously, it didnt work too well. But one of the things he said was "He has small hands and therefore, you know what that means, he has small something else." You can look it up. I didnt say it.

I dont want people to go around thinking that I have a problem. Im telling you, Ruth, I had so many people. I would say 25, 30 people would tell me ... every time Id shake peoples hand, "Oh, you have nice hands." Why shouldnt I? And, by the way, by saying that I solved the problem. Nobody questions ... I even held up my hands, and said, "Look, take a look at that hand."

 I dont know if it was presidential, honestly, whether it is or not. He said, Donald Trump has small hands and therefore he has small something else. I didnt say that. And all I did is when he failed, when he was failing, when he was, when Christie made him look bad, I gave him the a little recap and I said, and I said, and I had this big strong powerful hand ready to grab him, because I thought he was going to faint. And everybody took it fine. Whether it was presidential or not I cant tell you. I can just say that what he said was a lie. And everybody, they wanted to do stories on my hands; after I said that, they never did. And then I held up the hand, I showed people the hand. You know, when Ive got a big audience. So yeah, I think its not a question of presidential ...

 Oh boy. We love Nevada. We love Nevada. Thank you. Thank you. Oh this is a great place. Thank you very much. Great evening. We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.
You know we werent expectinga couple of months ago, we werent expecting to win this one, you know that, right? We werent. Of course if you listen to the pundits, we werent expected to win too much, and now were winning, winning, winning the country. And soon the countrys going to start winning, winning, winning. So I want to thank the volunteers. Theyve been unbelievable. These people, they work like endlessly, endlessly. Were not going to forget it. And weve had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. We love Florida so. Were going to do very well in Ohio. Were beating the governor. Its always nice to be beating the governor. And Michiganthe whole thing. Its going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. So tonight we had 45 to 46%, and tomorrow youd hear them say, you know, if they could just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%. So if they couldthey keep forgetting that when people drop out, were going to get a lot of votes. You know they keep forgetting.
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. Hes getting better than me so Im a little jealous. And Don went to _____, you were all over, right?
He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.
And Corey and Hope, the staff, the whole group, and Charles and Dan and what a group we have. I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy. Phil said, "Donald,"like for the last three months hes driving me crazy, he said"Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign." I said, "Phil I dont want your money. I dont want to do it. Im self funding." Every time I see him. Its hard for me to turn down money because thats what Ive done in my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy. I want money, money.
Ill tell you what were going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now were going to get greedy for the United States. Were going to grab and grab and grab. Were going to bring in so much money and so much everything. Were going to make America great again, folks, Im telling you folks, were going to make America great again.
And another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend of Phil tooMr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great people. Steve is always calling. Hes always got advice, right Steve? "Donald I think you should do this and that." His advice I like to listen to, Ill be honest. So Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. Youve been great friends. Thank you, thank you.
So this was very exciting tonight. But Ill tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals, and I have to tell you pastor [Robert] Jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great. And as you know Liberty Universitydo we love Liberty University? Huh? Jerry Falwell Jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beginning, and I want to thank Jerry and his family. Its been amazing, the relationship. So we won the evangelicals.
We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated. I love the poorly educated. Were the smartest people, were the most loyal people, and you know what Im happy about? Because Ive been saying it for a long time. 46% were the Hispanics46%, No. 1 one with Hispanics. Im really happy about that.
So Im very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love the country. Were going in the wrong direction. Were going to keepas you know Gitmo, were keeping that open, and were going to load it up with bad dudes. Were going to load it up w a lot of bad dudes out there. Were going to have our borders nice and strong. Were going to build the wall, you know that. Were going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexico, and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? Its going to happen. Its going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. Theyll pay for the wall. Theyll be very happy about it. Believe me. Ill talk to them. Theyre going to be very, very thrilled. Theyre going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.
Were going to be the smart people. Were not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. Were going to be the smart people. Youre going to be proud of your president, and youre going to be even prouder of your country, OK?
So tonight folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump International HotelI keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. Hes fighting me all the time. But thats OK. But I just want to say its a great state, and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm, it was unbelievable to see.
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember: Make America great again. Were going to do it, and its going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.

Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.

So nice, thank you very much. Thats really nice. Thank you. Its great to be at Trump Tower. Its great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And its an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybodys expectations. Theres been no crowd like this.

And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didnt know the air-conditioner didnt work. They sweated like dogs.

They didnt know the room was too big, because they didnt have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I dont think its gonna happen.

Our country is in serious trouble. We dont have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we dont have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, lets say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.

When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesnt exist, folks. They beat us all the time.

When do we beat Mexico at the border? Theyre laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But theyre killing us economically.

The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody elses problems.

Thank you. Its true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, theyre not sending their best. Theyre not sending you. Theyre not sending you. Theyre sending people that have lots of problems, and theyre bringing those problems with us. Theyre bringing drugs. Theyre bringing crime. Theyre rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.

oh And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. Theyre sending us not the right people.

Its coming from more than Mexico. Its coming from all over South and Latin America, and its coming probably  probably  from the Middle East. But we dont know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we dont know whats happening. And its got to stop and its got to stop fast.

Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. Theyve become rich. Im in competition with them.

They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They dont have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we shouldve taken.

So now ISIS has the oil, and what they dont have, Iran has. And in 19  and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said  and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that weve ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Dont hit Iraq," because youre going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and theyre taking it over big league.

We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love  theyre great  all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.

And we have nothing. We cant even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.

Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees  these are big vehicles  were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product  a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? Its never below zero.

Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.

And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Dont believe the 5.6. Dont believe it.

Thats right. A lot of people up there cant get jobs. They cant get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.

But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because its a statistic thats full of nonsense.

Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesnt work.

It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They dont know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They dont know what theyre doing. They dont know what theyre doing."

We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.

Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, its virtually useless. Its virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesnt work. A $5 billion Web site.

If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISISs ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been President because this would not have happened. ISIS would have been eradicated unlike what is happening now with our all talk, no action politicians.

The Mexican government and its leadership has made many disparaging remarks about me to the Pope, because they want to continue to rip off the United States, both on trade and at the border, and they understand I am totally wise to them. The Pope only heard one side of the story - he didnt see the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the United States. He doesnt see how Mexican leadership is outsmarting President Obama and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.

For a religious leader to question a persons faith is disgraceful. I am proud to be a Christian and as President I will not allow Christianity to be consistently attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current President. No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to question another mans religion or faith. They are using the Pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.

I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothings gonna get done. They will not bring us  believe me  to the promised land. They will not.

As an example, Ive been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And theyre wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They dont know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. Im meeting with three of them in the next week. And they dont know  "Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?"

I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they dont talk jobs and they dont talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? Theyre devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldnt believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. Theyre killing us.

But you dont hear that from anybody else. You dont hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.
Thank you.

I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "Whats going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I dont need the rhetoric. I want a job."

And thats whats happening. And its going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in 16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so Id say, you what, if he wants to  I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If hed like to play, thats fine.

In fact, Id love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.

But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend whos a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. Its a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."

We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be  and  and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.
So Ive watched the politicians. Ive dealt with them all my life. If you cant make a good deal with a politician, then theres something wrong with you. Youre certainly not very good. And thats what we have= representing us. They will never make America great again. They dont even have a chance. Theyre controlled fully  theyre controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.

Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. Theyre great. But you know what? it wont happen. It wont happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, its destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.

We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.

And we also need a cheerleader.

You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think hell do well. I think hell be a great cheerleader for the country. I think hed be a great spirit."

He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.

Hes not a leader. Thats true. Youre right about that.

But he wasnt a cheerleader. Hes actually a negative force. Hes been a negative force. He wasnt a cheerleader; he was the opposite.

We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. Its not great again.

We need  we need somebody  we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.

And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. Theyre saying, "Dad, youre going to do something thats going to be so tough."

You know, all of my life, Ive heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just cant happen. And yet thats the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.

So ladies and gentlemen...

I am officially running...

... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.

It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.

We have people that arent working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But theyre going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And theyll be proud, and theyll love it, and theyll make much more than they wouldve ever made, and theyll be  theyll be doing so well, and were going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.

I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.

Ill bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. Ill bring back our jobs, and Ill bring back our money.

Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deals even better.

How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?

Im going to tell you  thank you. Im going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because Im totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.

Number one, the people negotiating dont have a clue. Our president doesnt have a clue. Hes a bad negotiator.

Hes the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.

We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. Thats the negotiator we have.

Take a look at the deal hes making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe wont exist very long. Its a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But...
So we need people  Im a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you dont have talented people, if you dont have great leadership, if you dont have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.

Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that arent smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And its just not going to work.

So, heres a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.

But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything  everything, they got away with it again. And its impossible for our people here to compete.

So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine whos a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. Hes very upset. I said, "Whats your problem?"

He said, "You know, I make great product."

And I said, "I know. I know that because I buy the product."

He said, "I cant get it into China. They wont accept it. I sent a boat over and they actually sent it back. They talked about environmental, they talked about all sorts of crap that had nothing to do with it."

I said, "Oh, wait a minute, thats terrible. Does anyone know this?"

He said, "Yeah, they do it all the time with other people."

I said, "They send it back?"

"Yeah. So I finally got it over there and they charged me a big tariff. Theyre not supposed to be doing that. I told them."

Now, they do charge you tariff on trucks, when we send trucks and other things over there.

Ask Boeing. They wanted Boeings secrets. They wanted their patents and all their secrets before they agreed to buy planes from Boeing.

Hey, Im not saying theyre stupid. I like China. I sell apartments for  I just sold an apartment for $15 million to somebody from China. Am I supposed to dislike them? I own a big chunk of the Bank of America Building at 1290 Avenue of the Americas, that I got from China in a war. Very valuable.

I love China. The biggest bank in the world is from China. You know where their United States headquarters is located? In this building, in Trump Tower. I love China. People say, "Oh, you dont like China?"

No, I love them. But their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and we cant sustain ourself with that. Theres too much  its like  its like take the New England Patriots and Tom Brady and have them play your high school football team. Thats the difference between Chinas leaders and our leaders.

They are ripping us. We are rebuilding China. Were rebuilding many countries. China, you go there now, roads, bridges, schools, you never saw anything like it. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge look like small potatoes. And theyre all over the place.

We have all the cards, but we dont know how to use them. We dont even know that we have the cards, because our leaders dont understand the game. We could turn off that spigot by charging them tax until they behave properly.

Now theyre going militarily. Theyre building a military island in the middle of the South China sea. A military island. Now, our country could never do that because wed have to get environmental clearance, and the environmentalist wouldnt let our country  we would never build in an ocean. They built it in about one year, this massive military port.

Theyre building up their military to a point that is very scary. You have a problem with ISIS. You have a bigger problem with China.

And, in my opinion, the new China, believe it or not, in terms of trade, is Mexico.

So this man tells me about the manufacturing. I say, "Thats a terrible story. I hate to hear it."

But I have another one, Ford.

So Mexico takes a company, a car company that was going to build in Tennessee, rips it out. Everybody thought the deal was dead. Reported it in the Wall Street Journal recently. Everybody thought it was a done deal. Its going in and thats going to be it, going into Tennessee. Great state, great people.TRUMP: All of a sudden, at the last moment, this big car manufacturer, foreign, announces theyre not going to Tennessee. Theyre gonna spend their $1 billion in Mexico instead. Not good.

Now, Ford announces a few weeks ago that Ford is going to build a $2.5 billion car and truck and parts manufacturing plant in Mexico. $2.5 billion, its going to be one of the largest in the world. Ford. Good company.

So I announced that Im running for president. I would...

... one of the early things I would do, probably before I even got in  and I wouldnt even use  you know, I have  I know the smartest negotiators in the world. I know the good ones. I know the bad ones. I know the overrated ones.

You get a lot of them that are overrated. Theyre not good. They think they are. They get good stories, because the newspapers get buffaloed (ph). But theyre not good.

But I know the negotiators in the world, and I put them one for each country. Believe me, folks. We will do very, very well, very, very well.

But I wouldnt even waste my time with this one. I would call up the head of Ford, who I know. If I was president, Id say, "Congratulations. I understand that youre building a nice $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico and that youre going to take your cars and sell them to the United States zero tax, just flow them across the border."

And you say to yourself, "How does that help us," right? "How does that help us? Where is that good"? Its not.

So I would say, "Congratulations. Thats the good news. Let me give you the bad news. Every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border, were going to charge you a 35-percent tax, and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction, and thats it.

Now, heres what is going to happen. If its not me in the position, its one of these politicians that were running against, you know, the 400 people that were (inaudible). And heres whats going to happen. Theyre not so stupid. They know its not a good thing, and they may even be upset by it. But then theyre going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for Ford and say, "You cant do that to Ford, because Ford takes care of me and I take care of you, and you cant do that to Ford."

And guess what? No problem. Theyre going to build in Mexico. Theyre going to take away thousands of jobs. Its very bad for us.

So under President Trump, heres what would happen:

The head of Ford will call me back, I would say within an hour after I told them the bad news. But it could be hed want to be cool, and hell wait until the next day. You know, they want to be a little cool.

And hell say, "Please, please, please." Hell beg for a little while, and Ill say, "No interest." Then hell call all sorts of political people, and Ill say, "Sorry, fellas. No interest," because I dont need anybodys money. Its nice. I dont need anybodys money.

Im using my own money. Im not using the lobbyists. Im not using donors. I dont care. Im really rich. I (inaudible).

And by the way, Im not even saying that in a  thats the kind of mindset, thats the kind of thinking you need for this country.
So  because we got to make the country rich.

It sounds crass. Somebody said, "Oh, thats crass." Its not crass.

We got $18 trillion in debt. We got nothing but problems.

We got a military that needs equipment all over the place. We got nuclear weapons that are obsolete.

Weve got nothing. Weve got Social Security thats going to be destroyed if somebody like me doesnt bring money into the country. All these other people want to cut the hell out of it. Im not going to cut it at all; Im going to bring money in, and were going to save it.

But heres whats going to happen:

After Im called by 30 friends of mine who contributed to different campaigns, after Im called by all of the special interests and by the  the donors and by the lobbyists  and they have zero chance at convincing me, zero  Ill get a call the next day from the head of Ford. Hell say. "Please reconsider," Ill say no.

Hell say, "Mr. President, weve decided to move the plant back to the United States, and were not going to build it in Mexico." Thats it. They have no choice. They have no choice.

There are hundreds of things like that. Ill give you another example.TRUMP: Saudi Arabia, they make $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. I love the Saudis. Many are in this building. They make a billion dollars a day. Whenever they have problems, we send over the ships. We say "were gonna protect." What are we doing? Theyve got nothing but money.

If the right person asked them, theyd pay a fortune. They wouldnt be there except for us.

And believe me, you look at the border with Yemen. You remember Obama a year ago, Yemen was a great victory. Two weeks later, the place was blown up. Everybody got out  and they kept our equipment.

They always keep our equipment. We ought to send used equipment, right? They always keep our equipment. We ought to send some real junk, because, frankly, it would be  we ought to send our surplus. Were always losing this gorgeous brand-new stuff.

But look at that border with Saudi Arabia. Do you really think that these people are interested in Yemen? Saudi Arabia without us is gone. They;re gone.

And Im the one that made all of the right predictions about Iraq. You know, all of these politicians that Im running against now  its so nice to say Im running as opposed to if I run, if I run. Im running.

But all of these politicians that Im running against now, theyre trying to disassociate. I mean, you looked at Bush, it took him five days to answer the question on Iraq. He couldnt answer the question. He didnt know. I said, "Is he intelligent?"

Then I looked at Rubio. He was unable to answer the question, is Iraq a good thing or bad thing? He didnt know. He couldnt answer the question.

How are these people gonna lead us? How are we gonna  how are we gonna go back and make it great again? We cant. They dont have a clue. They cant lead us. They cant. They cant even answer simple questions. It was terrible.

But Saudi Arabia is in big, big trouble. Now, thanks to fracking and other things, the oil is all over the place. And I used to say it, there are ships at sea, and this was during the worst crisis, that were loaded up with oil, and the cartel kept the price up, because, again, they were smarter than our leaders. They were smarter than our leaders.

There is so much wealth out there that can make our country so rich again, and therefore make it great again. Because we need money. Were dying. Were dying. We need money. We have to do it. And we need the right people.

So Ford will come back. Theyll all come back. And I will say this, this is going to be an election, in my opinion, thats based on competence.

So the reporter said to me the other day, "But, Mr. Trump, youre not a nice person. How can you get people to vote for you?"

I said, "I dont know." I said, "I think that number one, I am a nice person. I give a lot of money away to charities and other things. I think Im actually a very nice person."

But, I said, "This is going to be an election thats based on competence, because people are tired of these nice people. And theyre tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world. And theyre tired of spending more money on education than any nation in the world per capita, than any nation in the world, and we are 26th in the world, 25 countries are better than us in education. And some of them are like third world countries. But were becoming a third word country, because of our infrastructure, our airports, our roads, everything. So one of the things I did, and I said, you know what Ill do. Ill do it. Because a lot of people said, "Hell never run. Number one, he wont want to give up his lifestyle."

Theyre right about that, but Im doing it.

Number two, Im a private company, so nobody knows what Im worth. And the one thing is that when you run, you have to announce and certify to all sorts of governmental authorities your net worth.

So I said, "Thats OK." Im proud of my net worth. Ive done an amazing job.

I started off  thank you  I started off in a small office with my father in Brooklyn and Queens, and my father said  and I love my father. I learned so much. He was a great negotiator. I learned so much just sitting at his feet playing with blocks listening to him negotiate with subcontractors. But I learned a lot.

But he used to say, "Donald, dont go into Manhattan. Thats the big leagues. We dont know anything about that. Dont do it."

I said, "I gotta go into Manhattan. I gotta build those big buildings. I gotta do it, Dad. Ive gotta do it."

And after four or five years in Brooklyn, I ventured into Manhattan and did a lot of great deals  the Grand Hyatt Hotel. I was responsible for the convention center on the west side. I did a lot of great deals, and I did them early and young. And now Im building all over the world, and I love what Im doing.

But they all said, a lot of the pundits on television, "Well, Donald will never run, and one of the main reasons is hes private and hes probably not as successful as everybody thinks."

So I said to myself, you know, nobodys ever going to know unless I run, because Im really proud of my success. I really am.

Ive employed  Ive employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. That means medical. That means education. That means everything.

So a large accounting firm and my accountants have been working for months, because its big and complex, and theyve put together a statement, a financial statement, just a summary. But everything will be filed eventually with the government, and we dont extensions or anything. Well be filing it right on time. We dont need anything.

And it was even reported incorrectly yesterday, because they said, "He had assets of $9 billion." So I said (ph), "No, thats the wrong number. Thats the wrong number. Not assets."

So they put together this. And before I say it, I have to say this. I made it the old-fashioned way. Its real estate. You know, its real estate.

Its labor, and its unions good and some bad and lots of people that arent in unions, and its all over the place and building all over the world.

And I have assets  big accounting firm, one of the most highly respected  9 billion 240 million dollars.

And I have liabilities of about $500 million (ph). Thats long-term debt, very low interest rates.

In fact, one of the big banks came to me and said, "Donald, you dont have enough borrowings. Could we loan you $4 billion"? I said, "I dont need it. I dont want it. And Ive been there. I dont want it."

But in two seconds, they give me whatever I wanted. So I have a total net worth, and now with the increase, itll be well-over $10 billion. But here, a total net worth of  net worth, not assets, not  a net worth, after all debt, after all expenses, the greatest assets  Trump Tower, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, Bank of America building in San Francisco, 40 Wall Street, sometimes referred to as the Trump building right opposite the New York  many other places all over the world.

So the total is $8,737,540,00.

Now Im not doing that...

Im not doing that to brag, because you know what? I dont have to brag. I dont have to, believe it or not.

Im doing that to say that thats the kind of thinking our country needs. We need that thinking. We have the opposite thinking.

We have losers. We have losers. We have people that dont have it. We have people that are morally corrupt. We have people that are selling this country down the drain.

So I put together this statement, and the only reason Im telling you about it today is because we really do have to get going, because if we have another three or four years  you know, were at $8 trillion now. Were soon going to be at $20 trillion.TRUMP: According to the economists  who Im not big believers in, but, nevertheless, this is what theyre saying  that $24 trillion  were very close  thats the point of no return. $24 trillion. We will be there soon. Thats when we become Greece. Thats when we become a country thats unsalvageable. And were gonna be there very soon. Were gonna be there very soon.

I will immediately terminate President Obamas illegal executive order on immigration, immediately.

Fully support and back up the Second Amendment.

Now, its very interesting. Today I heard it. Through stupidity, in a very, very hard core prison, interestingly named Clinton, two vicious murderers, two vicious people escaped, and nobody knows where they are. And a woman was on television this morning, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump," and she was telling other people, and I actually called her, and she said, "You know, Mr. Trump, I always was against guns. I didnt want guns. And now since this happened"  its up in the prison area  "my husband and I are finally in agreement, because he wanted the guns. We now have a gun on every table. Were ready to start shooting."

I said, "Very interesting."

So protect the Second Amendment.

End  end Common Core. Common Core should  it is a disaster. Bush is totally in favor of Common Core. I dont see how he can possibly get the nomination. Hes weak on immigration. Hes in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy? You just cant do it. We have to end  education has to be local.

Rebuild the countrys infrastructure.

Nobody can do that like me. Believe me. It will be done on time, on budget, way below cost, way below what anyone ever thought.

I look at the roads being built all over the country, and I say I can build those things for one-third. What they do is unbelievable, how bad.

You know, were building on Pennsylvania Avenue, the Old Post Office, were converting it into one of the worlds great hotels. Its gonna be the best hotel in Washington, D.C. We got it from the General Services Administration in Washington. The Obama administration. We got it. It was the most highly sought after  or one of them, but I think the most highly sought after project in the history of General Services. We got it. People were shocked, Trump got it.

Well, I got it for two reasons. Number one, were really good. Number two, we had a really good plan. And Ill add in the third, we had a great financial statement. Because the General Services, who are terrific people, by the way, and talented people, they wanted to do a great job. And they wanted to make sure it got built.

So we have to rebuild our infrastructure, our bridges, our roadways, our airports. You come into La Guardia Airport, its like were in a third world country. You look at the patches and the 40-year-old floor. They throw down asphalt, and they throw.

You look at these airports, we are like a third world country. And I come in from China and I come in from Qatar and I come in from different places, and they have the most incredible airports in the world. You come to back to this country and you have LAX, disaster. You have all of these disastrous airports. We have to rebuild our infrastructure.

Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it.

Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it. People have been paying it for years. And now many of these candidates want to cut it. You save it by making the United States, by making us rich again, by taking back all of the money thats being lost.

Renegotiate our foreign trade deals.

Reduce our $18 trillion in debt, because, believe me, were in a bubble. We have artificially low interest rates. We have a stock market that, frankly, has been good to me, but I still hate to see whats happening. We have a stock market that is so bloated.

Be careful of a bubble because what youve seen in the past might be small potatoes compared to what happens. So be very, very careful.

And strengthen our military and take care of our vets. So, so important.

Chris, thank you very much. I appreciate it.
This has been an amazing evening. Already, weve won five major states and it looks like we could win six or seven or eight or nine.

Its really been  its really been great.
I want to congratulation Ted on the winning of Texas. He worked hard on he  I know how hard he worked actually, and so I congratulate Ted Cruz on that win. That was an excellent win.
Were going to make America great again, folks. Were going to make it great again.
And, you know, I watched Hillarys speech and shes talking about wages have been poor and everythings poor and everythings doing badly, but were going to make it  shes been there for so long. I mean, if she hasnt straightened it out by now, shes not going to straighten it out in the next four years. Its just going to become worse and worse. She wants to make America whole again and Im trying to figure out what is that all about. Make America great again is going to be much better than making America whole again.
So I just want to say that this was an exciting evening. Its so great to be in Florida. Its so great to be at Mar-A-Lago with friends and the press and the media and everybody.

I know it was a very tough night for Marco Rubio. He had a tough night but he worked hard. He spent a lot of money. He is a lightweight, as Ive said many times before. But you know what? Were going to go to Florida, were going to spend so much time in Florida. Weve got about a 20-point lead. I know that a lot of groups, a lot of the special interests and a lot of the lobbyists and the people that want to have their little senator do exactly as they want, theyre going to put $20 million or $25 million into it over the next two weeks, from what just came over the wires. And frankly, I think thats fine. As far as Im concerned, its fine. And if he wins, theyll have totally controlled  total control. But hes not going anywhere anyway, but well see what happens. But were going to spend a lot of time in Florida.
The Virginia one was just a great win because its a place that is just spectacular and a place that we have big investments in, as we have in Florida. Remember, we have thousands of employees in Florida, all along Miami, Doral and Mar-A-Lago and so many other places. And its been an amazing place to invest. Its been amazing to have so many wonderful employees, so many of whom are here tonight, really urging us on.
And you know, I have thousands of employees all over the country, actually, all over the world but for purposes of tonight, well just say all over the country. And its been just so beautiful to watch this company grow and to watch it grow so strongly.
Recent articles came out talking about how great a company we built, and now we want to put that same ability into doing something for our nation. I mean, our nation is in serious trouble. Were being chilled on trade, absolutely destroyed. China is just taking advantage of us. I have nothing against China. I have great respect for China, but their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Our leaders dont have a clue and the trade deficits at $400 billion and $500 are too much. No country can sustain that kind of trade deficit. It wont be that way for long. We have the greatest business leaders in the world on my team already and, believe me, were going to redo those trade deals and its going to be a thing of beauty.
You look at countries like Mexico, where theyre killing us on the border, absolutely destroying us on the border. Theyre destroying us in terms of economic development. Companies like Carrier Air Conditioner just moving into Mexico. Ford, moving into Mexico. Nabisco, closing up shop in Chicago and moving into Mexico. We have to stop it, folks. I know how to stop it. Were going to create jobs. Were going to create jobs like youve never seen.
Were going to lower taxes. I have a plan that Larry Kudlow and so many others think is the best plan theyve seen. Were going to lower taxes substantially for the middle class. The middle class has been forgotten in our country. It really helped and really probably was the predominant factor in making our country into a country that we all love so much and were all so proud of, but weve forgotten the middle class. So were going to lower taxes.
Were lowering taxes on business. You look at all the companies that are moving out. When you see Pfizer moving to Ireland and you see so many other companies, constantly now theyre leaving. They used to move from New York to Florida, or theyd move from New Jersey to someplace else, Chris. But now theyre moving from here    not that many people are leaving New Jersey. But Chris understands the problem, fully understands. Now theyre leaving from places that they used to move to into other parts of the world. We cant let that happen.
Weve lost our manufacturing jobs. Weve lost our manufacturing. Millions and millions of jobs, thousands and thousands and thousands of plants, manufacturing plants, warehouses. I mean, we are losing so much. We cant let it happen.
I tell the story often about a friend of mine who is in the excavation business and he always orders Caterpillar. And recently, he ordered Komatsu tractors from Japan because theyve cut the yen. Theyve devalued the yen to such an extent that it was virtually impossible for Caterpillar to compete. And I dont want that to happen. Thats not going to happen. They shouldnt be allowed to do it.
We have tremendous power over everybody because we are really the source. We have great, great power. The problem is we have politicians who truly, truly, truly dont know what theyre doing. So were going to work very, very hard.
Im so honored by this evening. If you wouldve told me on June 16th, when I was with my wife, Melania, and we came down the escalator in Trump Tower and it looked, literally, well, a little bit like this. You have a lot of cameras here tonight.

It looked, literally, like the Academy Awards. I never saw so many cameras in my life. And it takes courage to run. Ill tell you what, it takes a lot of courage to run for president. Ive never done this before. Ive been a job-producer. Ive done a lot of things but this is something Ive never done, but I felt we had to do it. When you look at the incompetence of the Iran deal, where we give $150 billion, we get absolutely nothing. When you look at all of the problems our country has and you look at our military, which is really being depleted rapidly, depleted. Were going to make our military bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody, nobody, nobody is going to mess with us, folks, nobody.

So its just an amazing honor to have you with me tonight. And if you want, press, I think we told you before wed be okay if you want to ask a few questions.
Yes, go ahead.

Well, they can always do that and then theyll  then theyll just lose everything and that would be the  that would be the work of a loser.
But let me just explain something. If youve seen whats happened, whether you go to South Carolina, where I had a huge victory, where we had a tremendous victory in New Hampshire, tremendous in Nevada, you look at whats happened, and tonight, of course, is the best of all. I mean, right now, theyre projected I guess six, but we could be seven, eight, nine, and major states. Its Georgia, Alabama, Massachusetts  (CHEERS)  Tennessee, Virginia. And you know, these are amazing states and were going to probably get a lot more. In fact, were projected to have some pretty good additional numbers.
But I will say this. Look, we have expanded the Republican Party. When you look at whats happened in South Carolina and you see the kind of numbers that we got, in terms of extra people coming in. They came from the Democratic Party, or the Democrat Party, and theyre Democrats and theyre long-time Democrats and they were never going to switch and they all switched. And they were independents. And weve actually expanded the party. Look at the number of votes we had in that area, as an example. Four years ago, they had 390,000 or so votes. We doubled it. We were almost 800,000. Whereas the Democrats went down. Theres much less enthusiasm for the Democrats.
So I  look, Im a unifier. I know people are going to find that a little bit hard to believe, but believe me, I am a unifier. Once we get all of this finished, Im going to go after one person, thats Hillary Clinton, on the assumption shes allowed to run, which is a big assumption. I dont know that shes going to be allowed to run. And I think thats, frankly, going to be an easy race. You see the polls. I beat Hillary in many polls. I know one thing. I dont think Marco is going to be able to beat her. I dont think  in all fairness, I think Teds going to have a very hard time. But Ted at least has a shot because at least hes won a little bit.
So I just tell you this. We are going to be a much finer party, a much  were going to be a unified party, I mean, to be honest with you. And we are going to be a much bigger party, and you can see that happening. Were going to be a much bigger party. Our party is expanding. And all you have to do it take a look at the primary states where Ive won and just look  weve gone from X number to a much larger number. That hasnt happened to the Republican Party in many, many decades. So I think were going to be more inclusive. I think were going to be more unified and I think were going to be a much bigger party, and I think were going to win in November. OK, yeah?

Im just doing whats right. Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work for some  for many, many  for millions of women. And Ill say it and I know a lot of the so-called conservatives, they say thats really  because Im a conservative, but Im a common-sense conservative. But millions of women have been helped by Planned Parenthood. But were not going to allow and were not going to fund as long as you have the abortion going on at Planned Parenthood, and we understand that and Ive said it loud and clear. But  and well see what happens. But Planned Parenthood  millions of people  and Ive had thousands of letters from women that have been helped. And this wasnt a setup. This was people writing letters. Im going to be really good for women. Im going to be good for womens health issues. Its very important to me, very important to me.
And maybe thats not a perfect conservative view, but I can tell you one thing. Im more conservative than anybody on the military, on taking care of our vets, on the border, on the wall, on getting rid of Obamacare and coming up with something much, much better, and certainly, getting rid of common core and bringing education to a local level so that youre going to have good education for our children who are being absolutely starved for proper education.
So Sarah, I mean, you know, you can call it what you want, but I am a truth-teller and I will tell the truth, OK?
Yeah, go ahead, finish it.

I feel awfully good. I mean, Im watching your people  Im watching your people on  and Im going to be very nice, Im going to be very nice  Im watching your people on CNN and Im watching the Fox people and Im watching the MSNBC people, too, OK? See? Im becoming diplomatic.  And they are certainly being very nice to me tonight. I mean, you know, theyre being very strong. And they are, theyre declaring Marco Rubio the big loser of the night, which is true. He didnt win anything. He hasnt won anything, period.
And by the way, and I have to tell you  and he was very, very nasty. Ive never heard a person get up and speak on an evening like this and be so nasty, but hes got a right to be nasty. He hasnt won anything and hes not going to win very much.
But I do congratulate Ted because I know how hard Ted worked on Texas and its a big get. Now I also did very well in Texas. I came in second. And one of the things my son, Eric, told me, which I didnt even realize, is that not only did I win most of the states  and some are coming in and Im expected to win them  but I came in second  I came in no worse than second. So it wasnt like I won and then I disappeared. The worst I had was a second. So Im very, very honored by the turnout, OK?
Yes, go ahead.

Right. Oh, theyre totally wrong. Look, I disavowed. I disavowed when I  in fact, Chris is my number one  Chris gave me the honor of joining the campaign. He called me. He said, "Donald, what youve got is a movement." We spoke today in Kentucky. Youve never seen a crowd like that. That had to be 20,000 people inside this massive convention center and it was incredible. And every place were speaking, if we have 10,000 people its like a small group. We had 35,000 people the other day in Alabama. And when Chris called, he said this is a movement; this is something like Ive never seen. And in all fairness to the press, a lot of the press have said the same thing. Theyve never seen whats happening right now. Theyve never seen anything like it. And Im just honored by it.
Now, when Chris joined, we had a news conference and they asked me the exact same question. I said I disavow. Now, right after the program that were talking about  and I thought it was clear, but you know, were talking about groups, groups, groups. I do have to know the name of the group because, who knows? I mean, they have to give me the name of the group. But right after, when I reviewed it, I put out a tweet and I put out on Facebook that I totally disavow. Now everybody knew I did that but the press refused to look at that. It was right after. And I disavowed then; I disavowed today on ABC with George Stephanopoulos, I disavowed again. I mean, how many times are you supposed to disavow? But I disavow and hopefully its the final time I have to do it. But if you look at Facebook and if you look at Twitter, right after the show I put out a statement because I want everybody to be sure.
Yes, go ahead.

No, its not, but there is always going to be some negotiation, and its going to be a good negotiation, not a bad negotiation. Its going to be a negotiation where well start at certain levels and hopefully I will make a great deal, and lots of great deals, for the American people.
So you know, look, you cant go around just signing our little notices that the president signs all the time, executive orders, hes done executive order, executive order. Its almost like, I dont even know. Does he ever go a deal with Congress anymore? Does he ever speak to the Senate? Does he ever speak with congressmen and get them into a room and get things done?
You know, a good example of this, in all fairness, is something that I  is very, very important to me; corporate inversion. Carl Icahn, whos a friend of mine who endorsed me, great businessman, he  it bothers him so much he calls me about it all the time, where were losing companies. And were losing for two reasons. Were losing for a lot of reasons but the taxes are too high. We have the highest  were the highest taxed nation in the world.
And very importantly, they have trillions, for companies, trillions of dollars outside of this country. The Democrats agree it should be brought back in. The Republicans agree it should be brought back in. Everybody agrees it should be brought back in. I could sit in a room  or the Oval Office  for a period of, literally, a half hour and I really believe I could get everybody  every single  you know, its one thing they dont agree on health care or they dont agree on common core or they dont agree on other things and theyll fight. Heres something every single  I mean, almost everybody agrees. These trillions and trillions of dollars should be brought into the country.
The president cant make a deal. The reason is he doesnt know how to make a deal, probably doesnt work at it, probably doesnt care, but youre talking about tremendous number of  tremendous amounts of money. So when you have something that everybody wants and you cant make a deal, theres something going on thats really wrong. And what it means is you have the wrong leader.
Yes?

Well, look, everything  we are going to have a wall. I can tell you we are going to have a wall. I watched the ex-president of Mexico, the arrogance of this man. And I get along great with Hispanics. You saw in Nevada, I won in the poll, the Hispanic vote. I have thousands of people that work for me right now that are Hispanic. Ive had thousands and thousands over my lifetime. These are great people. The Mexican leaders are too smart for our leaders and you saw it. Vincente Fox, first of all, he used a word that you should never have  if I ever used that word you folks wouldve never, ever, ever let me get away with it. Nobody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word. But he was angry at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion a year  $58 billion. The wall is going to cost $10 billion. Its so easy. Ive had these guys that Im on the stage with go you dont really mean Mexico is going to pay for the wall. One  as sure as youre standing there, 100 percent, Mexicos going to pay, 100 percent.

And the reason is Im a businessman. I know how to do this. Politicians are all talk, no action. Its not going to  except for Chris Christie, of course.  Its not  look, its not going to happen. Its not going to happen with these people.
So when you think of it  and then they say youll never be able to build a wall. Well, its 2,000 miles but we really need 1,000 miles. The Great Wall of China, built 2,000 years ago, is 13,000 miles, folks, and they didnt have Caterpillar tractors, because I only want to use Caterpillar, if you want to know the truth, or John Deere. I buy a lot of equipment from John Deere. I love John Deere, too. But they didnt have tractors. They didnt have cranes. They didnt have excavation equipment. The wall is 13,000 miles long. We need 1,000 miles and we have all of the materials. We can do that so beautifully. And this is going to be a serious wall. This is going to be high wall. This is going to be a very serious wall.
Were going to stop drugs from coming into New Hampshire. You know, when I won New Hampshire, those people were so incredible to me. And when you go, you wouldnt believe it because its so bucolic, so beautiful. You look at the fields and you look at everything, its so beautiful. And yet, you go to a meeting in New Hampshire, their number one problem, their number one problem is heroine. The heroine is pouring in and they have so many of their young people and other people addicted. And I told them Im going to stop it. Im going to stop it. Were going to have a strong border, and I mean strong.
And by the way, speaking of people, people are going to come in and theyre going to come into this country, but theyre going to come in legally, OK?

Ive got to find out whats going on. Weve got a big problem. We have a big, big problem. Ill tell it like it is. We have a big, big problem. Weve got to figure it out. Were going to figure it out. Radical Islamic terrorism, big, big problem, not only for us. You take a look at Germany, you take a look at Sweden, you take a look at Brussels. You look at some of these places, its like a disaster. And were not going to allow people to come into our country who we have no idea who they are, we have no idea where they come from, they have no paperwork, theyre young and theyre strong. You look at that migration line; theyre young, theyre strong, theyre powerful. And you say why arent they back fighting for their country?
Now, with all of that being said, I feel strongly  I have a bigger heart than anybody. Were going to build a safe zone. Its going to be in Syria. And Im going to get the Gulf states, who have more money than anybody  weve got to loosen up their wallets a little bit. Were going to get  but theyre not accepting people. Were going to get  wait, wait, wait. Were going to get the Gulf states to pay for it because they should.

Oh, were going to bring them back. Were going to bring them back. Look, Im telling you  you know how Im going to bring them back? First of all, were going to do great with the African- Americans, and you see that in the polls where I had in one poll where Im 25 percent. And one of the commentators, who I think is standing right at the back of the room in the corner, said, you know, if Donald Trump gets 25 percent of the African-American vote, this election is over. You watch. And the reason Im getting that  and Im going to do great with the Hispanics. Im going to do great with virtually every group. The reason is Im going to bring jobs back. Im going to get Apple to start making their computers and their iPhones on our land, not in China. How does it help us when they make it in China?

Well, look, I always liked Marco until about a week ago when he decided to go hostile. He decided to become Don Rickles, OK? But Don Rickles has a lot more talent. Honestly, I did, I always liked him but he became  you know, somebody told him youre losing very badly. The only way you can possibly win, take the hail Mary, they called it a hail Mary, the folks in the back, and go hostile. Its hurt him. In fact, one of the newscasts tonight said he went down 15 or 20 percent. Its really hurt him.
But look, Im not going to tell him what to do. Im not going to tell anybody what to do. You have to run. He had a bad night, according to CNN, Fox. I watched their broadcasts. They say the loser of the night was Marco Rubio and its true. He didnt win anything. He hasnt won. I mean, at least you can say that Ted has won something, and you know, Marco has not won. Youve got to be able to win. You cant talk. You know, these politicians, all talk, no action. Youve got to be able to win something. He hasnt won anything. And he actually hasnt come very close. So well see what happens.
Yes, go ahead.

Im going to be a good president for the world but we have a country thats in big trouble. Our infrastructure is going to hell, our roads, our highways, our schools, our hospitals, our airports. I go throughout the world. I mean, you go to Qatar, you go to  some people say Qatar, but you go to Qatar, you go to any of  so many places. You go to different places in China, different places in Asia, different places in the Middle East, you look at some of the airports they have. You look at the roadways they have. You look at the transportation systems they have and the trains they have. Were like a third world country.
So I am going to be very good for the world. Im going to get along with the world. Youre going to be very proud of me. Even you will be very proud of me as a president. But we have to rebuild our country. Our country is going to hell and people dont understand that.
And Hillary Clinton doesnt have a clue. She cant do that. Shes talking about  I mean, one of the things that has really bothered me, I think one of the reasons I have such great support, is that people, you take a look, people in the middle-income groups are making less money today  less money than they made 12 years ago. And in her speech, she just said theyre making less money. Well, shes been there with Obama for a long period of time. Why hasnt she done anything about it? Practically everything that she was complaining about  shes picked up what I say. The difference is shes been there for a long period of time. Why havent they done anything about it?
Then you look at her record as secretary of State. Its abysmal. You look at whats going on with Syria. You look at whats going on with everything. Its a disaster.
So were going to have an interesting period of time. I dont know that shes going to be allowed to run. What she did is a criminal act. If shes allowed to run I would be very, very surprised. But if shes allowed to run, honestly, itll be a sad day for this country because what she did was wrong. And what she did  (CHEERS)  let me just tell you, what she did was wrong and other people have done far less than her and they paid a very, very big price.
OK, one or two more questions. Yeah, go ahead, Jeremy

At this moment, absolutely not, no. We either have a country or we dont. We have a country, or we dont. We have borders or we dont have borders. And at this moment, the answer is absolutely not.

Well, look, I dont expect  I have a lot of respect for Reince and for the group and I like the RNC and I dont know that Ive been treated fairly or not. I really dont know. I cant tell you that. But I can tell you that I do respect them.
What I really have is a great number of people. I have millions and millions of people. And when I was watching this broadcast just a little while ago, before I came in here because I wanted to see exactly where we were before I started speaking, I was amazed at the kind of numbers. The Republicans have tremendous energy. The Democrats dont. They dont have any energy. Their numbers are down. Our number are through the roof. And people are making the statements theyve never seen, in modern times, a party that was so energized.
I think if somebody is doing as well as Im doing  and Im not just speaking for myself, whether it be me or anybody else  but if Im going to win five  Ive already won five, but maybe it could be six, seven, eight, nine. It could be nine, could win nine states tonight. If Im going to win all of these states with tremendous numbers, and if Im going to come in the worst is second in the two or three that I might not win, I think, you know, were a democracy. I think its awfully hard to say thats not the person we want to lead the party, right? You know, its very hard.
But I really think that  I think its a great question, David, because I really think that one of the biggest things that everybody is seeing happening, and everybody, is the Republican Party has become more dynamic. Its become more diverse. Were taking from the Democrats. Were taking from the independents. We have a lot more people. We have a lot more people. I mean, take a look at South Carolina. Look at the numbers. Look at the numbers from four years ago when nobody even wanted to waste their time and vote. And then you look at  I was there and you had lines that went a mile long. And it was virtually more than doubled.
So we have a very, very dynamic party and I think were going to be able to unify the party. I hope to be able to get along with everybody. I dont know Paul Ryan well but I hope to be able to get along with him. I do know Mitch McConnell a little bit but I hope to be able to get along with him. But remember this. I have millions and millions and millions of people. This isnt like its a close match. I mean, its only too bad that winner didnt take all, because if winner took all, this thing is over. Were just having a celebration.

You know, were having a celebration.
So anyway, I would like to  look, I just want to end by thanking everybody. This has been an amazing period in my life. My wife just called and Ivanka, as you know, is going to be having a baby very soon and shes a special person and its going to be great and we look forward to that. Shes back in New York. She wanted to be here. They all wanted to be here but theyre with Ivanka now and that could be, certainly, within the next week. But this this has been an amazing period of time. Its been amazing for me, even from an educational standpoint. And I think, honestly, weve done something that almost nobody thought could be done and Im very proud of it.
And I just want to leave you with this. I am a unifier. I would love to see the Republican Party and everybody get together and unify. And when we unify, theres nobody, nobody thats going to beat us.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.

Thank you very much. Thank you.

This is so  so incredible. 

We  we have had, no matter where we go  you know, its a movement, folks. This is a movement.

No matter where we go, its amazing. We go to Dallas. We go to Oklahoma. We go all over. We went to, the other night, Iowa  packed. Every place  New Hampshire, packed. Every place we go to, its like this. Its amazing. And just great, great people.

And they actually had to tell over 3,000 people, "go home." Well come back. Well do another one. But they had to go home. Would you like to leave and well let them come in? No?

I dont think so, but we  they turned away a lot of people, which is too bad, actually. So maybe next time. I dont know. I think this is the largest room. I know its a record for the room.

You know, it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with people, and theyre standing. Theyre not sitting. So thats great. I love  we love setting records. We want the country to set records, right?

So, you know, I  I do this, and I love to do it. And I talk about our success because thats ultimately what its all about. I think were going to do fantastically well in Iowa. I really think were going to do great there. And I could say, "Oh, gee, if we came in the top four of five." Im not  Im looking to win everything. We want to run the table. We want to run it, because that sends a signal.

And, you know, weve been a little bit  we had to respond to Hillary. She came out with that  she came out  remember, she wrote  she said, "Hes got a  hes demonstrated a penchant"  I demonstrated  "a penchant for sexism." Can you believe it? Me? Nobody respects women more than Donald Trump. That I can tell you.

And, you know, when she said that, I had no choice, because I didnt start it. I had no choice. And I did have to mention her husbands situation. OK?

(Laughter)

And that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10. So, we have to do it. You cant let people push you around. You cant let people tell lies. You cant do it.

You know, its interesting. One of the polls came out from CNBC and they said that if its Trump against Hillary in the election, it will be the greatest voter turnout in the history of this country. I can see that. I can see it.

And they said all of these people that are going to come in new, that never vote  they never vote, they dont care  theyre going to mostly  Ill tell you what, theyre going to vote for Trump. Thats why theyre coming in, because theyre so fed up with the system  this corrupt, horrible system. Theyre fed up with it and theyre fed up with those guys back there, the media.

TRUMP: They are the worst.

No, no, no. Theyre fed up. Theyre fed up with the media. I mean, Ive got  and you know, not all bad, but theres so much dishonesty in the media. And I like to call it out. And one of the things thats really been amazing to me, and such  its been so beautiful to watch  the level of genius in the public. They get it, you know? They really get it. They want to marginalize us, they want to do all of this and they want to make everybody look like, "Oh, gee."

The level of genius  they fully understand. They know theyre crooked, they know theyre dishonest and they really  otherwise, who gets worse publicity than me?

(Laughter)

And yet, I see a poll at 42 percent. And you know, youre talking about 15, 16 people, started with 17. How are you? Started with 17 people. And you know, Id be happy with 42 if we had three, OK? Not thrilled, Id like to be that  over that 50 mark, but I think were doing really well.

And you know, its interesting, but the debates  OK. So the debates  thank  I love you too, darling.

(Laughter)

I love you. I do. I love you. I love every  you know what? The rooms, no matter where, whether its stadiums or big ballrooms like this one, its amazing, and theres love in the room. And I told  the other night, I said and a friend of mine, very, very successful guy who I would love to have negotiating against China. Thats what we need, not these hacks that we have.

No, no. I have guys ...

Carl Icahn endorsed me. Great business man. We have  I have great, great business people that want to be involved. And were going to use  we have the best. We have the best in the world. We dont use them. We use political hacks, we use special interest people that really dont care about the country, they care about their deals.

This is going to change so fast. You know, last year, $500 billion trade deficit with China. Think about it. You know what $500 billion is? You do  you do $100 bills, you would fill the room to the ceiling, $500 billion deficit  trade deficit with China. What are we? Are we  yes, I guess the answer is certainly lets not blame us.

Our leaders are stupid and  and/or  you have to say and/or they have deals, because whats happened is all of this money is being given to them by special interests, by all of these people, including lobbyists, and these lobbyists make our leaders do  our leaders, can you believe our leaders? This is what  but they make the leaders of our country do things that they dont even want to do because theyve given them tens and tens and tens of millions of dollars.

I look at this guy Jeb Bush. He spent $59 million on his campaign and he is down in the grave. He is nowhere. No, no. Think of it. Its got to be much more than that. It was actually $59 million a while ago. Every time I turn on an add, I see an ad about Trump. I mean, its not that bad an ad either. Its like  you know.

If youre going to do an ad, do an ad. But hes a low-energy person. Lets face it. We dont need low-energy. We need lots of energy.

But he spent  think of it. Think of it. He spent $59 million. I spent nothing, right? Nothing.

Now, Im going to be spending. You probably saw Im going to spend  now, were going to start spending a lot of money because I dont want to take any chances. You know, its  I love getting up  and for the last couple of months, I have been leading from practically the time I announced, right? And for the last  and leading a lot. Im going to go over that because I go over (ph) polls. I love polls. I love polls.

Now, when they  if they turn negative, I dont like them.

And I promise, if they turn negative, Im not going to be talking about them. In fact, I get criticized all the time. Youre always talking about your polls. One of these guys just got two. Hes at two. Im at 42. And one of these guys whos at two said, "He always talks about his polls and I dont." I wouldnt either if I had two, I swear I wouldnt.

I wouldnt. I wouldnt do it at all. But you know, I love to tell the story where I have spent nothing and Bush has spent $59 million, but much higher than that. Thats just  you know, because I see since then  I mean, just  you cant turn on this television without these commercials. And Fox  every two minutes its a commercial on Trump.

You know what he did? Its false advertising. So I killed him in the debate. According to Reuters, according to everybody, Drudge, whos an amazing guy, by the way. If you dont know Drudge  Matt Drudge. Right? Hes a great guy. But Drudge, 46 percent. At 46 percent, you have 15 people. Now, if you noticed a couple have dropped out. A couple or more.

But 15, 16 people  46 percent. Time magazine, 49 percent. Think of it. Slate, 51 percent. U.S. News and World Report  69 percent said I won the debate. I wont the debate, right?

PBS, Public Broadcasting System  69 percent said Trump won.

No, you know, it is amazing. We have Washington Times at 62 percent. CBS, 59 percent. Fox, 62 percent  Fox Las Vegas, 62 percent. So, they all say  then they go back home, after the debate. I like to see how did I do? Did I look good? Looking good is very important, right? Sometimes, it is not as much like what you say, its how did you look?

Oh, I looked good, didnt sound too good, but that is OK. You wonder if that is a good trait. But I go home, and I watch, and the pundits will say  and they cant totally kill me, because we know it is happening, we know whats happening  well, Mr. Trump was OK tonight. He was  I won every single online poll, I won.

And then, heres Bush. So, Bush does an ad. And he takes me  and he was talking about, you know, something, and manage  and then I killed him. I mean, he  by the way, I met 69 percent, he is at 1 percent, he got. He came in last.

He takes the ad  and I shouldnt even talk about him. Hes down to two or three  I  but it bothers me when I see a guy spending, you know, $60 million on ads against me, a lot of it, right? I say, why is he doing this? Doesnt he have something better, he should go home.

Just relax. You know, honestly, he should go home and relax. He shouldnt be wasting his time. But it does. I say, why is this guy spending all this money? Now he is spending it actually against a couple of other guys, they were also very weak and somewhere  but here is my ad. So, he made a statement, and after that, his spin people said, oh, he was great. He took on Trump, he took on Trump. Im standing here, hes over here. Took on Trump, he made a statement that was written by his pollster. You know? So, he would remember (ph) it.

He said, "Mr. Trump, why dont you this?" I said, OK. Then I gave him an answer. I said, "Jeb, Im at 42, you are at 2. Right? It is a simple answer. You started off here, right next to me, and then you were there, then you were there, by the next time, you are going to be off the stage. Right?

No, no, its true. And then  and then  and that was it. And so I responded. So, he asked me a question, question was fine. You know, professionally written. So, he asked me a question, good. I give him an answer, I blow him away. Right. Everyone says Trump won the debate. Everybody. And hat is it. So, the ad is him asking the question and Im standing there like this, because I havent  in fact, you see in one of them, Im just about ready to open my mouth.

But he doesnt let me respond. That is almost false advertising, isnt it? You know? So, I mentioned it, Hillary is a disaster. I mean, Hillary.

Hillary is controlled by her money. So is Jeb. So is  by the way, Im the only one self-funding my campaign. Im self-funding.

You know, one of the things that makes me happy. I heard one of my commentators this morning, said, "you know, Ive been watching this stuff for 50 years and Ive never seen anything like what has happened with Trump. One of them actually said  one of them  Im special. Youre special. I like you. Im special.

Isnt that nice? Thats a very  every once in a while, somebody can say something that hits you. Where are you? Who said that? Wow. So nice. Thank you. That is a nice one. Thats like, you know, very once in a while, there is a statement that is either nice or brutal. I think low-energy was a brutal statement, right?

Low-energy can be applied to Hillary. I just dont like to use the same thing twice on one of my enemies. Right? Because I consider them enemies. We view this as war. Dont we view this as war? Its war.

Its war. And so, you dont like to use it. I hate to give it up. What?

How are you going to help my little girl (ph), daughter?  Oh, we are going to help your daughter. We are going to help the country, thats called helping the daughter. We are going to help your country. So, here is the story. So, we are in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where our trade deals are killing us, our military is not prepared. General Odierno when he left, just recently, he said that we are less prepared than at any time that he can remember. And I think he went back tot he beginning, but lets say second World War. OK? Thats enough.

And we should be very prepared now, because the world hates us. She has done a terrible job as secretary of State. Think of it. Putin comes out, he said, Donald Trump is brilliant, he is doing an amazing job, and he is leading the pack. OK, thats nice.

And she and my opponents  oh, isnt it terrible that Putin said  wouldnt it be nice if we could get along with the world? Wouldnt it be? Seriously. No, no, wouldnt it be nice?

I mean, they want me to refute his statement. How dare you say Im brilliant? How dare  thats  whos going to do that? And by the way, if he said it about anyone of them, they would have been very happy.

But the point is, we have to get along. The world has blown up around Barack Obama.

Now, I dont know if you saw his recent release. They were talking about the Department of State, State Department, and they said very strongly, you know, the things that theyve done. Well, they couldnt find it because what have they done thats good? And they said bringing peace to Syria. Did you see that?

So instead of saying they made a mistake  call it a typo, they made a mistake  theyre trying to justify it. Well, we meant were working on it. Can you believe  bringing peace to Syria. The world is blowing up, the migration in Syria  they say one of their achievements for the year is bringing peace to Syria, and the whole worlds talking about it. Its  the level of stupidity is incredible. Im telling you. I used to use the word incompetent, now I just call them stupid.

I went to an Ivy League school, Im very highly educated. I know words, I had the best words. I have  but theres no better word than stupid.

Right? There is none. There is none.

Theres no  theres no  theres no word like that. So we are going to turn things around. But  and if we have Hillary  Ive got to tell you. I just saw where for the last week shes been hitting me really hard with the women card, OK? Really hard. And I had to say OK, thats enough, thats enough. And we did a strong number. Shes not going to win. Any by the way, I love the concept  I love, love, love having a woman president. Cant be her. Shes horrible. Shes horrible.

And you know really dont  Ill tell you who does not like  yeah, well get Ivanka. Good. Lets do Ivanka.

But Ill tell you who doesnt like Hillary are women. Women dont like Hillary.

I see it all the time. And always so theatrical; Mr. Trump said this and that and this. And you just  I actually  I shouldnt do it. I just have to turn off the television so many times. She just gives me a headache.

But you know  although I think last night I gave her a big headache.

I can imagine  I can imagine those discussions. But you have to hit back hard, and you cant let them push you around. And today, she gave a speech and she never even mentioned my name. You know, in the debate I was mentioned nine times, I mean everything. All of them. But her. I was mentioned nine times, none of the other candidates were mentioned. And then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. And  but shes playing that card. And then I had to hit her back, so I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse  no, its tremendous abuse.

I mean, you look at it, its tremendous abuse. And I talked about that. And now today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a speech and doesnt even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else. I wonder why  I wonder why.

And remember this; its really important. A poll just came out where were tied, another one came out a couple of weeks ago, Fox, where Im leading by four or five points against her individually. Were doing great. I havent even focused on her yet.

Look at the people Ive focused on. I dont want to really knock them, I dont want to mention their names. But, you know, of those people that are all gone, they were all people that attacked me. Wouldnt it be nice if our country could have that same thing? You attack and theyre, boom, gone. And if we could do it verbally 

 you know, if we could do it verbally thats even better, right? You know, who wants to use our military? By the way, we are going to build the strongest, the best, the most powerful military ever. Ever. Ever.

And were going to take care of our vets, were going to take care of our vets 

And it will cost you much less money, and it will be great. I mean, you are signing in programs, things that you will never, ever use, You know that. And you are paying for it. And you will never ever use them. So we will get that straightened out. We are going to straighten a lot of things. We are going to straighten out Common Core. Common Core is dead. Its going to be dead.

When I look at parents and I see local parents in Iowa and New Hampshire and South Carolina, I went to a school and I saw the parents, they love their children. They want that  they want education. They love  they dont care about money, they dont care about anything. They love their children and its local.

And they get together and they do wonderful programs. They are smart people as opposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big, fat checks in Washington. I mean, we have such talent in this country and we dont use it. So, Obamacare, dead. Common core, gone. We are going to get rid of it. Department of Education, we are going to get rid of it.

We are bringing education to a local level. One thing on education. So, in the world, we are ranked number 28. There are third world countries that are ranked better than us in education and many other things. And yet, per pupil, we are number 1, by far  there is nobody close. Number two isnt even close.

So we spend more money for pupil than any country in the world and we are ranked number 28 which is way down at the bottom, essentially. I mean, its  can you imagine we are ranked number 28 and we are number 1? And thats what I do like saying about my campaign, I spent less money than anybody else and I have the best results.

Im number one by a lot and I spent no money. I mean, my plane cost me some money, but I spent no ads. Took a little radio ad in Iowa. But I didnt do that  I took  I think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. But I spent essentially no money.

And then you have all these other guys spending vast  and they like the way the United States is run. Now, why would we put a guy like Jeb, like some of the others. Its not only Jeb Bush. They spend money. I see Rubio on the ads all day long.

You know, the black background. Hes got like a black thing. He should have put something like that behind him, right? Right there, the flag.

No, no. And I like him. I think he is a nice guy. But I see these ads with the backdrop and it is just somber. Its not  I dont think its good. So, think of it. I spent no money and Im number one. Others spent  they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they are not even in the race. Thats what we need for our country. What? OK. Ive got 15,000, I dont know what the hell he means by that but thats OK. So, but I think hes a fan. I dont think hes a  are you a protester? No. OK. No body likes Trump. OK. Hes not a protester. I love you.

You know, the only time  dont worry about it. The only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Cause I always have  like, look at this room, packed. I always have the biggest crowds.

And I go home and my wife said were there many people? I watched you on television tonight. I said, I had 20,000 people. She said, they didnt show it. They have it right on your face. So I have 20,000 people. I have 20,000 in Oklahoma, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama. Nobody knows. Because those cameras stay right in your face and I think they cant move.

You know, I think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe  except every time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are on drugs or something, cause some of those guys, its like. They dont even know what the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras swerve and make perfect shots.

And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So, you know. Some time I think Im going to put in some false protesters. Ill put in some friendly protesters. Its the only way Im going to be able to get the crowd in.

So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked about a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and  in Trump Tower, the famous escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president. Ill tell you, you know, its like, Ive never did this before.

And, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. We have the largest audience in the history of cable television. Then CNN a couple of weeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million  the largest audience in the history of CNN.

Now, theyre there  the cameras are on live right now. I mean, you know. So, the largest audience in the history of (inaudible).

Now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know, whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted  they didnt want the debates. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the debates. They drew nothing, but now theyre drawing 24 million. Now they want to have more debates  "Oh, can we have more? Can we have more?" Can they go three hours?

Do you remember when they had the one go three hours? I said, no, Im not doing three hours. Its too long. Who wants  I could stand up here for 50 hours, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?

"Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?" Oh, great. And by the way, that question  I hate those questions. You know why? Because I want to be unpredictable. I dont want to tell ISIS what Im going to do to knock the hell out of them.

Remember, I said very strongly  (inaudible) the oil for what, four years? Youve been watching. I mean, four years. Ive been "get the oil, get the oil, get the oil." Because whos going to get the oil? Iran is taking over Iraq. We made a deal for Iran, done by some of the dumbest people on earth, on our side. We gave them everything. They  we dont even get our prisoners back.

And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it? I go crazy. We would have gotten them back. All you had to do was say, "We want our prisoners back." They would have said no. I would have said, "I want them back; you dont understand me. I want them back." They would have said, "No, we wont do that." I would have said, "Bye-bye," and I would have left. Then I would have doubled up the sanctions. And I guarantee you...

... I guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and theyll say, "Youve got your prisoners; can we talk?"

And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them the money. I would have never give  theyre using it  they dont have to make nuclear. They can buy it. Why are they going to make it? Then we have the nuclear, where they have self- inspections. How about the area  you know, the big area? They dont want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They dont want us there. So they self-inspect, OK?

Then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "We think youre making nuclear weapons here." "Well, let us go check, Mr. President, well check."

"No, sir, were not making nuclear weapons. Nobody  no, were not; we would never do a thing like that."

These are people that have deceived us. Theyve lied to us. Theyre a terrorist state. But  and I used to say its the worst deal that Ive ever seen negotiated. And by the way, just to finish prisoners. So theyd come back; we get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal is done. Its all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get  and what do they say? They said very strongly, they said, "We are going to want a lot for the prisoners. Thats out  were starting off; were going to want a lot."

Now, weve already taken off the sanctions. Theyre already rich as hell. What  whats going on there? Thats why I say, I mean, some people say its worst than stupidity. Theres something going on that we dont know about. I mean, honest. And you almost think  Im not saying that, and Im not a conspiracy person. As you said, "We are; were saying it."

Half the people in this room are saying it. Im trying to be  you know, Im just hoping theyre just stupid people, OK?

Which they are. Or theres something going on. Because its  its inconceivable. You know, do you ever see where some things are so bad that it cant be  that nobody can do what they did, right? Nobody.

So, Iran now wants to negotiate separately for the (inaudible). In other words, that deal is done; now we want to start all over again. And they want a lot. "We want a lot." And I just  I want to just shoot the television, you know? Because they would have had it just by saying.

And, you know, when they asked Kerry and Obama, the deal was made. Everybody knows its a horrible deal. Its going to need to  its going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation, and theyre so rich now. You know, they became  $150 billion  they became so rich. And many other things that you dont even know about. Most people dont even know what the agreement says.

But Ill tell you what, when you look at what were doing, were not going to have  if we keep going like this, folks, were not going to have a country left. Were not going to have a country. Were not going to have a country.

And were like a dumping ground for the world. Were a dumping ground. They want to take these migrants  the migrants, you know, and I feel terrible about the migration, caused by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. Theyre the ones that caused it. They go into Libya. They knocked the hell out of Gadhafi. OK, so Gadhafi  they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other young people.

You know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a military jeep, holding the Libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom, freedom. And then gets killed by the same people. So, we backed people that turned out to be far worse than Gadhafi.

Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq. I mean, what the hell did we get? We spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago. I keep saying two or three, its a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion, we have thousands of deaths, and Im not even talking other side.

You are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. You have thousands of deaths. We have wounded warriors, who I love, all of. These guys are the toughest  these are the greatest people.

You know, these are the greatest people. And then what happens? We leave, and we have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. So, I said, man, if Im the enemy, Im just going to go wait for 18 months right?

He gave a date. We are leaving Iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. I said, Im just sitting there watching and Im saying, man, thats really stupid. Because, believe me, the enemy doesnt want to be killed. You know, you hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go, right?

They dont. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families, always their families. You remember that, because their families know whats going on OK? You think their wives dont know what they are planning? You think their kids dont know exactly what daddy is doing when daddy is going to fly into the World Trade Center? You think they dont know? They know exactly whats going on. Remember that. And frankly, I think they have more love for their familys lives than they do for their own lives, OK. But they still want to live. So here is Obama, gives an exact date. He gives an exact date and so they pull back.

And everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. Look, were doing so well. Why should they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take the place? So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of oil. I said take the oil. Remember when we left, I was opposed to going in because I said youre going to destabilize the Middle East.

Because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they fight, theyre always fighting for decades and decades, for generations. They fight, thats what they do. They fight. How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. They fight and they were equal militarily. They go this way, 10 feet. They go this way, 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.

Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. Oh, its because (ph) of gas. They go back and forth. Its the same. And they were stabilized. And I said, if you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, youre going to destabilize the Middle East. Thats what going to happen. Youre going to destabilize the Middle East. And thats exactly what happened. We totally destabilized the Middle East.

We have now migrations ,largely because of whats happened afterwards. You know Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in and we should have never gone in. But we shouldnt have gotten out the way we went out. And we shouldnt have given dates. I mean, I would have probably said we are going to stay forever. And they would have said, oh, man.

And then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, this guy is crazy. I mean, hes never going to leave and youll make a deal. But when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they just pull back. And then as soon as we left, they come in OK?

So they have the oil. You know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? China. Always China. I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for us. We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall by the way.

Were building a wall, we are going to have a border. And people are going to come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal process. Theyre not coming in the way theyre coming in now, just walking in like nothing.

They are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. So, with Iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. We didnt take the year. So for four years, I have been talking about it. Then because of Paris, all of sudden they start bombing the oil.

But I didnt want to just bomb the oil. I wanted to take oil. Theyre bombing. You know, we are bombing. Great. Whats going to happen after that? So were bombing. And, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still selling it.

I said, how could they keep selling it? Obama does not want to hit them too hard because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. No, this is serious. Now think of it. He talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a very old Air Force one, an old Boeing 747, with the old engines and you know, spewing stuff.

So, hes got a problem with the carbon footprint. You cant use hair spray because hair spray is going to affect the ozone. Im trying to figure out. Lets see, Im in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so that I can 

 right? Right? But I hear where they dont want me to use hair spray, they want me to use the pump because the other one which I really like better than going bing, bing, bing 

 and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you  its stuck in your hair and you say oh my God, Ive got to take a shower again. My hairs all screwed up, right?

I want to use hair spray. They say dont use hair spray, its bad for the ozone. So Im sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit  you know, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?

But its sealed, its beautiful. I dont think anything gets out. And Im not supposed to be using hair spray. But think of it. So Obamas always talking about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most dangerous problem, OK? No, no, think of it. I mean, even if youre a believer in global warming, ISIS is a big problem, Russias a problem, Chinas a problem. Weve got a lot of problems. By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem. He actually has nuclear weapons, right? Thats a problem.

Weve got a lot of problems. Weve got a lot of problems. Thats right, we dont win anymore. He said we want to win. We dont win anymore. Were going to win a lot  if I get elected, were going to win a lot.

Were going to win so much  were going to win a lot. Were going to win a lot. Were going to win so much youre all going to get sick and tired of winning. Youre going to say oh no, not again. Im only kidding. You never get tired of winning, right? Never.

But think of it. So Obamas talking about all of this with the global warming and the  a lot of its a hoax, its a hoax. I mean, its a money-making industry, OK? Its a hoax, a lot of it. And look, I want clean air and I want clean water. Thats my global  I want clean, clean crystal water and I want clean air. And we can do that, but we dont have to destroy our businesses, we dont have to destroy our 

And by the way, China isnt abiding by anything. Theyre buying all of our coal; we cant use coal anymore essentially. Theyre buying our coal and theyre using it. Now when you talk about the planet, its so big out there  were here, theyre there, its like theyre our next door neighbor, right, in terms of the universe. Miss Universe, by the way, I made a great deal when I sold  oh did I get rich.

That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said he talks about illegal immigration, were not going to put him on television. First of all, Univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldnt believe it. And NBC, I made a great deal with them, just like an amazing deal, far more than I would have ever gotten  I mean, I made an unbelievable deal  far more than I ever would have gotten if I said I think Im going to sell it if times were normal, right? Isnt it amazing the way that stuff can work out?

But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe. But think of it. So China is spewing up all this stuff and were holding back. And with China  you know, we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within 30 or 35 years. I dont think theyre going to be doing it.

Its like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and start World War III, OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesnt have to help us. Somehow, that doesnt sound so fair. Does that sound good?

So South Korea  I order televisions, I order thousands of televisions a year. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff and I like nice brand new  theyre all made in South Korea, most  other than Sony, and Sony, in all fairness, has lost its way. But a lot of them  Samsung, all of them. I mean, theyre all pretty much  all of them, right? I think just about. But I order thousands of televisions, theyre all from South Korea. So we have 28,000 people on the border separating South Korea from this maniac in North Korea, we get nothing. What do  we get nothing. Theyre making a fortune. Its an economic behemoth.

A lot of you dont know we protect Germany. Germany! Mercedes Benz, how many people have a Mercedes Benz? We protect Germany. Its an economic behemoth.

We protect Saudi Arabia. They were, during the good oil days  now its probably half, which is fine. But during the good old  they were making a billion  listen to this  a billion dollars a day, and we protect them. Our military  they pay us peanuts, like nothing. And then if we want to buy  we want to move to another location, well, thats very expensive if we do that. We want  they charge us rent?

I mean, look. We are run by people that are so bad, theyre so out of their league  and I see it, I see it on the stage. You know, theyre  a lot of them are nice people. You know, a lot of people think I dont like these people. I do like them. But they dont have business sense, they dont have business ability, they dont have common sense. Theyre politicians, theyre all talk, theyre no action.

When I say...

... folks, when I say, "Were going to build a wall." Most of them say, "You cant build a wall  build a wall." In China 2,000 years ago, they built the Great Wall of China, which is bigger than any wall were thinking about, OK? The Great Wall of China goes 18,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we only need 1,000 miles, because you have a lot of natural barriers, right, that are extremely tough to get across. We have 1,000 miles.

So, China has 18,000 or 13,000 miles, and we have 1,000 miles. We have modern cranes. We have Caterpillar tractors  I want to use Caterpillar; I dont want to use Komatsu.

Made in America.

Even my hats, theyre made in America. It wasnt easy to find a guy that could do those hats. You know what Im talking about. I see so many knock-offs of my hat, right? "Make America Great Again." I see these things that are out of plastic. Theyre out of all sorts of crap. Mine are made in America. And honestly, they do a great job, but they dont produce as many as Id like because, frankly, theres a big  I mean, its amazing. Those hats are amazing. But I wanted to have it made. And you know why I wanted it  I wanted it, anyway, but I also knew that as soon as the hats came out, and other things  we have a website  as soon as the hats came out, I knew the press would be calling. And its true. First hour when the hats were announced, I get a call from the New York Times. "Mr. Trump, where are those hats made?" I said, "America."

I knew it. I knew it. Because as you know, if I would have said China, I would have been in big, big trouble. But theyre being knocked off all over the world. I mean, I see hats  theyre like helmets. I see them all. But what are you going to do?

But heres the story. Weve got to build a wall. So when I talk and when Im up on the stage with these guys, these people  wonderful people  and a very nice woman, Carly. Shes a nice woman. When Im up on the stage with them, they think Im crazy when I say "Mexico"  Im saying, "Were going to build a wall; its going to be a great wall; its going to be real wall. See this ceiling? This ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall Im talking about."

Im talking about a van to get up there. Theyre not coming down because its too dangerous.

All right? Did you ever see what they do now? We have these little walls. They build ramps. They build a ramp. I say, "Wouldnt it be cheaper just to knock the wall down and just..." And then they drive over it with jeeps loaded up with drugs. Do you see this? They build ramps. There was a picture in Time magazine. Its a ramp  a little ramp that goes over the wall. So, they have a jeep  over, down, bump, make money. We get the drugs. Think of it. We  "build a wall" is right. Youve got to build a wall.

We get the drugs. They get the cash. No so good, right? We dont like that deal. Our politicians dont know  they dont know.

So when I say "Mexicos going to pay for it," these guys on the stage with me, theyre not business people. They dont understand. Mexico makes a fortune off the United States. Number one, we give them a lot of money. But in addition to that, theyre taking our businesses. Theyre making  you talk about a trade deficit. Ill tell you what, Mexico in a certain way is in a mini-version the new China. Mexico is making an absolute fortune  peanuts, compared to the cost of the wall.

Lets say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. Thats a good  I can do great job at $10 billion. I think well have a lot of money left over. Somebody else would  and by the way, 20 years ago, they wanted to build a wall. People that are opposed to it now, they wanted to stop and they wanted to build a wall. You know one of the reasons they didnt build the wall? Because of the Environmental Protection Agency, they couldnt get an environmental impact study approved. Can you believe it? Because there was a toad or a turtle or a snake or something was in the way.

Now, think of it. In China, in the South China Sea, there were these low-level land masses that were covered by water, but pretty close to the top. China sends in massive excavators and theyre (inaudible). Theyre building military fortresses in the South China Sea. And a friend of mine, who is one of the biggest and richest people in China  hes a great guy. Theyre great people. Theyre fine. Theyre just too smart. I mean, the leaders are too smart for our people.

They wont be too smart when I put my people there.

When they call up, "Wed like to speak to the donor that is negotiating it." "No, no. The donor now is Carl Icahn. Youre going to speak to Carl Icahn." You know Carl  great businessman. You have so many people  they call all these business people  call. So, a friend of mine, so I call him, I say, "Youre actually doing that." And then jokingly, I said, "How long did it take to get started? Did you have to get an environmental impact study approved in order to excavate?"

He looked at me, goes, "I  I hope youre kidding when you say that.

They conceived of the idea and they started digging four hours later, OK? There is no, you know, go through 25 years of environmental impact, you are going to hurt the snail. Youre going to hurt this. You are going to  they are doing a big thing.

They excavated  massive, massive  take a look, massive. The biggest excavation. They are ripping the hell out of that ocean. They are ripping it and they are taking their dirt and they are putting it  and theyre building air fields and theyre building forts.

We couldnt do it because, just like I said for the law. Legitimately, they could not get an environmental impact statement. Now, thats probably not the only reason it didnt happen. I heard their costs were too high. With me, thats easy.

You know, Im doing the old post office or watch (ph) you (ph). Im under budget, Im ahead of schedule. Hey, look at the campaign. The guys at $59 million and hes down at the bottom. Im nothing and Im at the top. Its the same thing.

I actually said  its funny. The other day I got this great review. They said trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem. And Im reading, and I want to see. The problem is, he speaks through the Applause. In other words, like I say that, you applaud, I start talking you finish your Applause. And you know why? Because Im so excited, because we have so much potential. Its true.

I dont want to wait for your freaking Applause. We have  I have so many  we have so much potential. There are so many things to do. I dont really sort of want to wait. I want to do it. And I just noticed, I did it again. You were getting ready to give a big Applause, because you like that, and Im speaking. I killed the Applause. But he is right. But except, Im not a speaker. What I am is a doer. I get things done.

So, when the people up on the stage with me  and Hillary, Hillary doesnt have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy. She has lower energy than Jeb Bush, which is hard to believe. She does. And Ill tell you and Ive been saying it. And maybe its rude, maybe it is not. But it doesnt matter. We have a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.

So, if Im rude and if people think Im rude  Im actually a nice person. I have a big heart. I want to help people. I want to help the migration. I want to do a safe zone in Syria. I dont want them coming here. We dont know who these people are. They are undocumented.

And we should do a safe zone over there. We should have the Gulf states  Saudi Arabia and these states they are not spending. They have got to spend. They have to pay. You know, we are protecting them. Were doing  they wouldnt be there for two minutes if we werent protecting them. They have to start paying. They are not taking anybody, OK?

How about Germany taking millions of migrants. Can you believe what she is doing to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasnt. Everybody said Trump was supposed to.

(BOOING)

Hey, what are you going to do. I think she has made a terrible mistake. We will find out. Time will tell. They have tremendous crime problems. I think she has made a tremendous mistake. But what I like is in Syria, with other peoples money, meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others.

Because, look, Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. Theyll give us the money. We do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which I will probably be able to get it straightened out, I understand this now.

But once its straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know, to their area. It is interesting, I have thousands of people that work for me. Thousands. And I have people that come from far  they are all here legally, dont worry about it. I use E- verify. But I have people  oh, they go and check. These guys go check.

They went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are you hear illegally? They said they found one person out of hundreds and hundreds. I dont believe it. But, you know, it is possible somebody slipped  hey, we do have 11 million people in the country. And it is probably a much higher number than that, OK? It is probably a much higher number.

But we have to do something about it and we are going to. So, I just want to finish by saying this. Look, we have a situation that is out of control. Our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are laughed at by the rest of the world.

And when I started this journey, and it is a journey, and I do love you people. Youre amazing people. And by the way, you are so smart. A lot of times, they will say, well Mr. Trumps people are blue-collar. I love blue-collar. Im honored by that.

But they are not blue-collar. We have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people. They say the audience is old. Its not older. The audience is young. The other night in Iowa, I told that, and I said, we have so many young people and the place erupted. They are all young people. We have an amazing thing happening, its just...

Look, thats their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing you. It is disgusting. But when I started this journey and thats what it is, its a journey and its a movement thats taking place. Its a movement. Remember the old days? Silent majority? Its not right. Its a noisy majority. People are angry. Its a noisy majority. These arent silent people anymore. I go to people  you cant even hear.

This is an amazing thing thats happened. I received a call from one of the biggest reporters, who happens to be liberal, but thats OK. (inaudible) a couple of them, right? But, a guy whos really respected, recently, and he said, "How does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" He said, "What you have done has never been done in the history of politics in the United States." I mean, even CNN said, "Number one political story of the year is Trump." You know what number two was? ISIS  ISIS was two. Id rather reverse it. Let ISIS be one; let me be two, because I want to knock the hell out of them and make me number one next year.

Make me number one next year. But this reporter, who is a great intellect, actually, and a very smart guy, very good guy. He said  he said, "What youve done has never been done before in the history of this country." Newt Gingrich was on a television show the other say, and said, "This is one the great phenomenons (ph) Ive ever seen in politics; nobodys ever seen it."

Crowds like this? Forget it. I mean, its only confined to this (inaudible). Again, they sent 3,000 people home. Can you believe it? More than 3,000. Its  its unbelievable whats happening. Its beautiful whats happening. Its beautiful whats happening. But Newt Gingrich said hes never seen anything like this.

But he said to me, the reporter, he said, "never been done before." I said, "Well, you know, its fine, but if I dont win, its just a waste of time." He goes, "No, no, no. What youve done is incredible." He said, "Even if you dont win, what youve done is incredible; youve totally changed the landscape of politics."

No, dont applaud, dont applaud, dont applaud. He said, "Youve totally changed the landscape of politics; its forever going to be different. Your campaign  theres never been anything like it." OK, he was very nice. I said, "You dont understand. You dont understand. If I dont win, I will consider this"  and I mean this  "a total and complete waste of time." I really do.

So  because were not going to do anything. Its wonderful. Oh, good, I had nice crowds. Theyll write about me every once in a while; every two years Ill have a story, "Trump ran this rather good campaign." If we dont win, to me, and honestly you should feel the same thing, if we dont win, its a terrible waste of time, because youll have somebody else in there. They wont be able to do what I do. Theyre not going to be able to. And even if you get one of these Republicans in, like, I didnt finish the  so, the wall.

When I say "Mexico is going to pay," they all laugh. They all go "heh, heh, heh." They think its funny. Honestly, these are people  they think its funny. Theyre laughing. You know, lightly, like "Oh ho, thats so funny; ha, ha, ha." Theyre going to pay for the wall, folks. Theyre making billions and billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with Mexico. The wall is peanuts. Theyre going to pay for the wall.

But I mention it, now they dont laugh because theyre starting to agree with me. And then the other day, one of the people said  it was Ted Cruz, who is a nice guy. But he said, "Were going to build a wall at the southern border." I said, "Look"  and my wife is sitting (inaudible)  where did that come from, right? No, Teds a good guy.

But he said on one of  I think it was on Fox, he was being interviewed. And he said, "Were going to build a wall at the southern border." He didnt say Mexico was going to pay was going to pay. He hasnt gone that far yet, but believe me thats going to happen. See, theyre all trying to catch up with me. Because when I did this stuff, it was very out there.

Now, Im the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to. But what happens is  so Teds up and hes talking. And, you know, routinely were going to have the border; were going to have this and that. And were going to build a wall.

My wife is sitting there. She says, "Darling, did you hear that? He just said theyre going to build a wall. Thats the first time Ive  you know, thats what you say." She hasnt heard that from any other candidate.

OK. So were going to build a wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. There are so many things were going to do. But when I  when I started the journey, it was amazing. I came down  it took courage. I went down in to the lobby of Trump Tower, on the escalator with Melania. I have never seen  it looked like the Academy Awards, the press. We have a lot of press here today. Theyre all live  look at all those live cameras.

So when I came down  when I came down on the escalator, we came down. And I said, "Were going to do things." And I mentioned illegal immigration. You wouldnt even be talking about illegal  it wasnt even on the radar. Nobody was talking about illegal immigration. Is that right? Now, its one of the big subjects.

And thats why  and one of the beautiful polls that came out, and Im so proud of it, CNN just came out with a poll a couple of, I guess a week ago  36 percent for Trump; second is 16; third is 14; then 12. So theyre way down. But on the economy, they give me 55  55 percent. Thats with 16 people at the time.

On the budget, I mean, I understand  the budget, the economy, I win  I win it hands down, all right.

But listen to this. On illegal immigration, Im almost at 50 percent.

And on ISIS, likewise, almost at 50 percent. So people want to be protected, they want to feel safe. They need strength, they need toughness, they need smarts. I dont want to be tough  you know, I know a lot of tough guys but theyre not smart, and theyre the  theyre the easiest. You can be tough, youve got to be smart.

Lets start smart first. Youve got to be smart-tough. Youve got to be tough because the world is trying to take advantage of us. So what happens is this. I came out, I started  I did it, I was, oh, that first couple of weeks with illegal immigration and Mexico and all of this stuff. Then Kate was killed in San Francisco and Jamiel was killed in Los Angeles. Jamiel Shaw, an unbelievable young man, was killed, just shot right through the head by an illegal immigrant. Kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back.

So many great people. And thats  these are two, so many. And then you have the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people arent paying taxes and all of this stuff, right? And all of a sudden, people are coming over, and I say the wall and now theyre starting to say the wall. We have to be progressive in our thinking. When I say progressive, I mean like smart. Im not talking progressive like a Bernie Sanders would say, the guy want to tax you. Think of it.

Think of it. This guy wants to raise your taxes to 90 percent. No, no, think  youll have to move out of this  I love this area, by the way. Ive been here many times. Great golfing area, right? We love it.

No more golf if Bernie Sanders  no more golf. No, no, you wont have any golf anymore. There wont be  you wont have any money left to be  youll be paying it in taxes. This guy is a total disaster.

And Im not saying that  Ill tell you why. You know, Hillary said well, Id like to run against Trump, believe me.

This poor Chuck Todd, Meet the Press. His show is dying and he keeps saying do it, do it, but I never liked it. You know, I just  he never treated me fairly. So I do his show, he gets the highest ratings hes had in years. He went from, like  believe me, I wont even give you the numbers, they were massive, the numbers, right? I saved his life, and then he goes Hillary Clinton said that she would most like to run against Donald Trump. And yes  and theyre looking forward to it. Trust me, the last person  shes already gotten a dose last night, do you agree?

She had a tough night. She had a tough one. She had a tough night looking at the beauty pageant, OK?

So Hillary Clinton said  and heres Chuck Todd  and hes a nice guy. Im not trying to knock him. Please dont be insulted, Chuck. But she says she doesnt like him. But he doesnt treat me right. So he goes the Clinton campaign said theyd most like to run against Trump, like Im some kind of a sap. So I call him and I say Chuck, let me explain something. When they say they want to run against me, that means they dont want to run against me, do you understand that? Do you understand its reverse psychology.

They say they want to run against me  first of all, Im winning and tied in the polls now and I havent even hit her yet. But look at what happened to all the guys I hit. Theyre gonzo, theyre gone or theyre failing badly, OK, and theyll be gone soon.

But Hillary Clinton  think of it. I say so Chuck, report it like properly. Trust me, they dont want to run against Trump. The last thing she wants in her whole life is  this was only  I did this in, like, 15 minutes what happened to them, because the husband wants to come and she wants to accuse me of things and the husbands one of the great abusers of the world? Give me a break. Give me a break.

Give me a break. So the last person she wants to run against is me.

Now heres the story. Look, heres the story. Its very simple. So I announced  and I was talking about trade, I was talking about the wall, I was talking about the borders, I was talking about Obamacare, I was talking about the 2nd Amendment will be saved, by the way. The 2nd Amendment.

It will be saved. The 2nd Amendment is going to be with us if Im president. You know, theyre doing everything. They want to get rid of the bullets now, theyre doing everything they can 

Think of Paris, think of Los Angeles. Think if you had some guns in Paris on the good side, right? They had no guns. Paris has the toughest guns in the world, folks. And France  I mean, you get caught with a gun, its  the only one that has guns are the bad guys. So they go in these various places, they called the guy the mastermind. Hes a moron. I mean, this guy was a moron. I call him the guy with the dirty hat, right? They got him so good. By the way, the French police did a great job and our Los Angeles police did a phenomenal job. They did a great job.

Wouldnt it be wonderful if, lets see, this guy right here in front of me, hes a tough guy. This guy with the hat, with the lousy head of hair, but hes a strong-looking guy right here. This guy right there, see? And that one. Wouldnt it be nice if they had a gun on their waist? Somebody. Him, him, him, so that when they  you know what they were doing in Paris? Get over here, boom. Get over here, boom. Your turn, get over here, boom. One hundred and thirty people with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right now in hospitals. Other people are going to die.

Same thing over there. These are people that gave a party in honor of their marriage. Theres something going on, folks. Its wrong. They gave them a party. They worked  they gave them a party. She came in on a fiance permit or some nonsense and she was radicalized, and he was probably radicalized by her or he was already radicalized.

And people knew that they were radicalized and people in the area knew that they had bombs  who the hell doesnt know? Youre their next door neighbor. And they didnt want to talk about it. Youve got to report these people. Weve got a real problem. Youve got to report them. No more nonsense.

They didnt report them, and the reason they didnt is because they dont disagree with them so much. OK? Believe me. Its not because they were afraid. You saw the one who wasnt politically correct to (ph) report them. They didnt want to report them. I mean, give me a break. So we have to change.

So it started off with me where I was going to talk about trade, I was going to talk about all the things, I was going to talk about the military, building it up. I was going to do all of this, but after Paris and California, and there will be others because they have no fear of us, but after Paris and California, it has totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points.

Its amazing. They went up 10 points. I said, "What, you think it was the debate?" Because I did good in the debate. They said, "No. People view you as a tough cookie thats not going to take this crap." Thats what it is.

And now I talk about protection. I talk about  trust me. The trade  thats so easy for me. Ive got the greatest guys in the world. Theyre going to come in, theyre going to do a great job. Im going to do some myself. I always talk about Ford. Theyre going to built a plant, $2.5 billion in Mexico. Thats not going to happen with me. That stuff is  those deals are no good.

Fords leaving. Theyre closing plants all over Michigan to build a plant in  in Mexico. How the hell does that help us? OK. Who are the people that think this is a good thing for us? And in the meantime, in Michigan and other places, we have plants closing all over the place and theyre spending  think about a $2.5 billion  then theyre going to sell cars, trucks and parts into the United States, no tax, no nothing.

Ill say you dont have to pay a tax, folks. And you know what? Ford will say "If I (inaudible) pay a tax, were going to stay in the United States." I mean, its very simple.

Its very simple. How about two weeks ago, Nabisco announced a big  Chicago. They announced theyre going to leave Chicago with one of their big plants and theyre going to move it to Mexico. Whats my statement? Were not eating oreos anymore, right? No more.

But I dont want this. Its not going to happen. Then theyre make  theyre going to make product and theyre going to sell it into the United States? Not going to happen. Its not going to happen. And by the way, Im a free trader. I believe  weve got to be smart. I mean, weve got to get something. We dont get anything out of anything. We dont get anything.

We lose on everything. That Iran deal was a disaster. By the way, think of the Iran deal for one second. I always  and this came to me two weeks ago. I dont know why I didnt think of it sooner. Very disappointed with myself.

The Iran deal is the worst deal Ive ever seen negotiated, OK? Im wrong. You know what the worst deal is? Irans a part of that one too. We gave them Iraq. Thats even better. Think of it. We gave Iran Iraq. Iran has the biggest  think of it. Theyre going to have the richest oil  if you go to Iraq, take a look. Among the largest oil reserves in the world.

We gave them, by decapitating Iraq and then leaving, because frankly, once we did it we should have kept 20,00 troops or something, we give Iraq. So not only did they make a great deal in terms of the Iran deal that we know having to do with nuclear, we also gave them Iraq. We gave them Iraq, that theyve been after for 100 years. We handed it to them.

So now, they have the largest oil reserves among  in the world. Thats even better than the original deal. I mean, whoever is representing Iran is doing a hell of a job. OK? If that was a stock, youve got to buy some.

So we are not going to have deals like that with me. Its not going to happen. Were going to become rich again, we are going to become safe again and we are going to become strong again. And...

And youre going to remember this moment. This is going to be an important moment for all of us. The one thing I have to say and I have to ask you to do, go out and vote. Its going to be your turn.

Number three. Remember, it starts on February 1st with Iowa. We go to New Hampshire, then we go to the finals (ph), so three weeks. Weve got four weeks to go, and then we have three weeks after we start. No matter what is going on in your life, you have got to out and vote. Because if you dont, its not going to happen.

Dont sit back and say, oh, Trump is going to do well. The more we can win by, you know, the more power we have in a sense, because it is like a mandate. But you have got to go out and vote. And I will tell you this. It has been an honor to be here, I love this area, I love the people here. Its been an honor.

But we will make America great again, I promise. Thank you.

(OFF-MIKE) Thank you very much, everybody. Well, I want to begin by thanking the people of South Carolina. This is a special state. Thank you. These are special people and we got a little boost last week from a place we all remember -- New Hampshire. We can't forget it. Special, special. We love it. And they sent us in here with a very good feeling, right?

Very good feeling. So I really want to thank you and my volunteers. All of these people -- volunteers and they travel and they -- and I say, "what are you doing?" And now they're going to Texas and they're going all over. Some are going to Nevada. I'll be going to Nevada. We're making a big speech tomorrow in Atlanta and then we're going right to Nevada.

And I think we're going to do terrific and the SEC's (ph) going to be very, very exciting. We expect to do very, very well. Very well ...

I want to just say thank you to my family. It's been not easy for them. They don't see me anymore. I'm making speeches all the time and I have a great. I really have a great family so I just want to thank all of you.

And Ivanka -- you know we have a hospital ready just in case. In South Carolina we're going to have a baby. There's nothing wrong with that, right? So ...

Could be -- it could be any second. It could even be before I'm finished but it's -- but she insisted on being here. It was so important to Ivanka to insist on being here so thank you. Really good and Jared, Vanessa, Don.

We have a wonderful lieutenant governor who backed us very early in the process.

You know Henry, right? The lieutenant governor of South Carolina. I will take him over the governor anytime because we won. We won ...

He handle that very nicely. He's tough. He's very tough. Tiffany, Eric, Lara and Melania. Melania, say something. Go ahead, please ...

M. TRUMP: Just want to say an amazing place -- South Carolina. Congratulation to my husband. He was working very hard and he loves you. We love you and we're going ahead to Nevada. And we will see what happen (sic). He would be the best president ...

And representing some very, very wonderful children, Ivanka. Just say a few words.

I. TRUMP: Thank you, South Carolina. This is an amazing, amazing night. The momentum since the beginning of this campaign has been unbelievable and that's because my father's message resonants so deeply with so many people. So as our family we're incredibly proud. We're incredibly grateful to each of you so thank you for being here to support us. And I will say this, my father is an incredibly hard worker and he'll be working for each and every one of you. So together we'll make America great again. Thank you ...

Thank you very much. Thank you very much. So I was watching upstairs and it was really amazing to be watching what I was watching. And some of the pundits and overall fair but not too much. But a number of the pundits said, "well, if a couple of the other candidates dropped out if you add their scores together it's going to equal Trump."

But these geniuses -- they're geniuses -- they don't understand that as people drop out I'm going to get a lot of those votes also. You don't just ...

You don't just add them together. So I think we're going to do very, very well. I think we're going to do very well. I want to also congratulate the other candidates. In particular I have to say Ted and Marco did a really good job and they got -- they did quite well as I understand. No, come on. Just one minute. Come on. One second, right? Good.

OK. We go back to war tomorrow morning. Tomorrow morning we'll be back but I just want to congratulate the other candidates. There's nothing easy about running for president, I can tell you. It's tough, it's nasty, it's mean, it's vicious, it's beautiful.

(LAUGHTER)

When you win it's beautiful and we're going to start -- we are going to start winning for our country. We're going to start winning.

Because our country doesn't win anymore. Doesn't win. We don't win with the military, we can't beat ISIS. We have great military but we can't beat ISIS. We don't win on trade. You look at what China's doing to us, what Japan does to us, what Mexico is just killing us at the border -- at the border and with trade. Mexico is killing us -- absolutely. We'll do the wall. Don't worry. We're going to do the wall.

 We're going to do the wall and by the way, who's going to pay for the wall?

Mexico's going to pay for the wall and it's very easy. The other politicians come down, "you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall." I said, "100 percent." We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. The wall is going to cost $10 to $12 billion, OK? Believe me, they will pay. One of the officials -- actually, one of the ex-officials from Mexico had a news conference.

And he announced that we will not be paying for the wall. Who does Mr. Trump think he is? They came to me -- the press. These people -- look at all those cameras back there.

The press came to me and they told me that he said that he would not pay for the wall. Do you have a comment? I said, "yes. The wall just got 10 feet taller."

It's true. And I love Mexico. I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't know what they're doing. I love these countries. They're great. I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We're going to Nevada.

I lead -- I lead with the Hispanics. I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me, I love them. The problem is -- the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular -- that's the big one. The greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially -- China.

What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. We're bringing our jobs back, folks. We're bringing our jobs back. We're going to bring them back ...

And I know how to do it. We've had so many -- we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important. Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.

And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when China wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a political hack which is what they have now. They're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.

 So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. We're going to terminate Obamacare. It's going to terminated. It's going to be over ...

It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. And you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare -- if you look -- look at the increases in your Obamacare. Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. It's dead. It's not working. We're going to go to a plan that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive.

So second amendment by the way -- this is a room loves the second amendment. Thank you, fellows. This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. We are going to protect our second amendment. Totally ...

Common core is gone. We are getting rid of common core. We're brining education to a local level. The people in this community -- every time I see them they want education locally. The parents, the teachers. They want to do it -- they don't want bureaucrats in Washington telling them how to educate their children.

We spend as a nation more for education per pupil than any other nation in the world. Not even close. More per pupil -- second place doesn't even exist it's so different. And yet out of 30 countries we're ranked number 30. You have China, you have Norway, Swenden, Denmark and then you have number 30, the United States. So we spend the most and we're at the bottom of the heap. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.

We are going to build our military which I thank because a number of the people came down and a number of the pundits in Washington I -- we love our military.

We love our military. And by the way we love our police. Our police are terrific. We love our police ...

They are not being treated properly. We're going to build our military so big, so good, so strong, so powerful that nobody is ever going to mess with us, folks.

 And we're going to buy -- we're going to buy the equipment that our generals, our soldiers, that everybody that's in the know want. We're not buying equipment that sells because they have political pull (ph). Because they take campaign and they give campaign contributions.

We are going to get the equipment that they want, not the equipment that they're told to have by senators and congressmen in Washington. We're going to have great equipment.

And the reason I can say that is I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these ...

I'm not getting millions of dollars from all of these special interests and lobbyists and donors that once they get it they literally do whatever the politicians want. That's not going to happen. And we're going to take care of our vets. We love our vets and they're being treated terribly. We're taking care of our vets.

So we're now off to Nevada and it's a great state. We have great people. We have great people in our nation. No matter where we go -- I went to Mobile, Alabama -- 35,000 people. We went to Oklahoma recently twice -- 20,000 people, 20,000 people. No matter where we go we fill up the arenas.

Over here the other day we had a 9,000 -- we had a 10,000 -- we have people. The only thing that stops the crowds are the walls because we can't get them in. We have to send thousands of people away.

Time Magazine -- Time Magazine last year did an incredible cover story. They said "it's a movement." And that's what it is. It's an incredible movement with incredible people. Incredible people.

It's an incredible movement with incredible people. I tell you. And whether we go -- honestly whether we go to Dallas or whether we go anywhere you say -- you go to L.A. -- you go anywhere you say. Our people are incredible. And our theme -- what's our theme? You know it, right?

Our theme which I love may be the greatest theme of all time, right? And the word again eventually is going to come off. We're going to get rid of the whole theme because what's going to happen -- make America great again, right?

And the last two weeks because I've gotten to see so many -- I guess millions when you add them all up with all of these rooms and all of these speeches. And I've met so many people. But the people are so incredible that I've been saying make America great again and it's going to be greater than ever before. That's the kind of potential we have. Greater then every before.

I dont see how there is any room for misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the statement I made on June 16th during my Presidential announcement speech. Here is what I said, and yet this statement is deliberately distorted by the media:

"When Mexico (meaning the Mexican Government) sends its people, theyre not sending their best. Theyre not sending you (pointing to the audience). Theyre not sending you (pointing again). Theyre sending people that have lots of problems, and theyre bringing those problems to us. Theyre bringing drugs.Theyre bringing crime. Theyre rapists. And some, I assume, are good people! But I speak to border guards and they tell us what were getting. And it only makes common sense. Theyre sending us not the right people. Its coming from more than Mexico. Its coming from all over South and Latin America, and its coming probably from the Middle East. But we dont know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we dont know whats happening. And its got to stop and its got to stop fast."

What can be simpler or more accurately stated? The Mexican Government is forcing their most unwanted people into the United States. They are, in many cases, criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc. This was evident just this week when, as an example, a young woman in San Francisco was viciously killed by a 5 time deported Mexican with a long criminal record, who was forced back into the United States because they didnt want him in Mexico. This is merely one of thousands of similar incidents throughout the United States. In other words, the worst elements in Mexico are being pushed into the United States by the Mexican
government. The largest suppliers of heroin, cocaine and other illicit drugs are Mexican cartels that arrange to have Mexican immigrants trying to cross the borders and smuggle in the drugs. The Border Patrol knows this. Likewise, tremendous infectious disease is pouring across the border. The United States has become a dumping ground for Mexico and, in fact, for many other parts of the world. On the other hand, many fabulous people come in from Mexico and our country is better for it. But these people are here legally, and are severely hurt by those coming in illegally. I am proud to say that I know many hard working Mexicansmany of them are working for and with me...and, just like our country, my organization is better for it.

The Mexican Government wants an open border as long as its a ONE WAY open border into the United States. Not only are they killing us at the border, but they are killing us on trade ... and the country of Mexico is making billions of dollars in doing so.

I have great respect for Mexico and love their people and their peoples great spirit. The problem is, however, that their leaders are far smarter, more cunning, and better negotiators than ours. To the citizens of the United States, who I will represent far better than anyone else as President, the Mexican government is not our friend...and why should they be when the relationship is totally one sided in their favor on both illegal immigration and trade. I have pointed this out during my speeches and it is something Mexico doesnt want me to say. In actuality, it was only after my significant rise in the polls that Univision, previously my friend, went ballistic. I believe that my examples of bad trade deals for the United States was of even more concern to the Mexican government than my talk of border security.

I have lost a lot during this Presidential run defending the people of the United States. I have always heard that it is very hard for a successful person to run for President. Macys, NBC, Serta and NASCAR have all taken the weak and very sad position of being politically correct even though they are wrong in terms of what is good for our country. Univision, because 70% of their business comes from Mexico, in my opinion, is being dictated to by the Mexican Government. The last thing Mexico wants is Donald Trump as President in that I will make great trade deals for the United States and will have an impenetrable border--only legally approved people will come through easily.

Interestingly, Univision has just announced they are attempting to go public despite very poor and even negative earnings, which is not a good situation for a successful IPO or high stock pricenot to mention that I am currently suing them for breach of contract. Remember, Univision is the one who began this charade in the first place, and they are owned by one of Hillary Clintons biggest backers. After the speech was made, there were numerous compliments and indeed, many rave "reviews"there was very little criticism. It wasnt until a week after my announcement that people started to totally distort these very easy to understand words. If there was something stated incorrectly, it would have been brought up immediately and with great enthusiasm.

The issues I have addressed, and continue to address, are vital steps to Make America Great Again! Additionally, I would be the best jobs President that God ever created. Lets get to work!

TRUMP: (OFF-MIKE) This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and all of the bad things and we all know whats going on, and especially how poor shed do as president in these very, very troubled times of radical Islamic terrorism.
TRUMP: Even her former Secret Service agent, whos seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be our president. There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech very, very soon.
But today, theres only one thing to discuss, the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders. The attack on the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terror strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our countrys history.
So many people  its just hard to believe, but just so many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace. The horror is beyond description. The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated, and they will be forever. Likewise, our whole nation and indeed the whole world is devastated.
We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families. We mourn as one people for our nations loss, and pledge our support to any and all who need it. I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of this attack.
Thank you. Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlandos LGBT community. They have been through something that nobody could ever experience. This is a very dark moment in Americas history. A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub, not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens, because of their sexual orientation.
Its a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation. Its an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want, and express their identity. Its an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safety in their own country.
We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people, with force, purpose, and determination. But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and to think and act clearly. Were not acting clearly, were not talking clearly, weve got problems.
If we dont get tough, and if we dont get smart, and fast, were not going to have our country anymore. There will be nothing, absolutely nothing, left. The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born in Afghan, of Afghan parents, who immigrated to the United States.
His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders those who dont share its radical views, and they murdered plenty. The father even said he was running for president of Afghanistan. The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first place, was because we allowed his family to come here.
That is a fact, and its a fact we need to talk about. We have a dysfunctional immigration system, which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens properly. We have an incompetent administration.
And if Im elected president, that will not change, I will tell you, that will not change over the next four years. We have an administration that will not change. But if I get in there, its going to change, and its going to change quickly. Were going from totally incompetent to just the opposite, believe me.

TRUMP: Thank you.
With 50 people dead and perhaps more ultimately and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around issues anymore. We have to address these issues head-on. I called for a ban after San Bernardino and was met with great scorn and anger but now many years and I have to say many years but many are saying that I was right to do so. And although the pause is temporary we must find out what is going on. We have to do it.
It will be lifted  this ban  when and as a nation were in a position to properly and perfectly screen these people coming into our country. Theyre pouring in and we dont know what were doing. The immigration laws of the United States give the president powers to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons. Now, any class  it really is determined and to be determined by the president for the interests of the United States. And its as he or she deems appropriate. Hopefully its he in this case.

Thank you. I will use this power to protect the American people. When Im elected I will suspend immigration from areas of the world where theres a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies until we fully understand how to end these threats. After a full ...

Thank you.
And by the way we have no choice. After a full and partial and long  really long overdue security assessment we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.

We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer. Many of the principles of radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions.
Remember this, radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti- American.

I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, Jewish people are targets of persecution and intimation by radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence.

This is not just a national security issue. Its a quality of life issue. If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans  women and children, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people then we need to tell the truth about radical Islam and we need to do it now.

We need to tell the truth also about how radical Islam is coming to our shores. And its coming ...

With these people, folks, its coming. Were importing radical Islamic terrorism into the West through a failed immigration system and through an intelligence community held back by our president. Even our own FBI director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of people were letting into America. All of the September 11th hijackists were issued visas. Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.
The Boston bombers came here through political asylum. The male shooter in San Bernardino again whose name I will not mention was the child of immigrants from Pakistan and he brought his wife, the other terrorist from Saudi Arabia through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.

TRUMP: Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five fold  five fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99 percent of the people in Afghanistan support oppressive sharia law. We admit many more, and thats just the way it is. We admit many more from other countries in the region.
And Ill tell you what: They share these oppressive views and values. We want to remain a free and open society. Then, and if we do, then we have to control our borders. We have to control, and we have to control them now, not later. Right now.

Thank you.
Yet Hillary Clinton, for months, and despite so many attacks, repeatedly refused to even say the words radical Islam until I challenged her yesterday. And, guess what, she will probably say them. She sort of has said them, but lets see what happens. She really has no choice, but she doesnt want to.
However, shes really been forced, and she has been forced to say these words. She supports, and the reason is, she supports so much of what is wrong, and what is wrong with this country, and whats going wrong with our country and our borders. She has no clue, in my opinion, what radical Islam is and she wont speak honestly about it if she does, in fact, know. Shes in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the entire world  true weakness.
I dont know if you know this, but just a few weeks before San Bernardino, the slaughter, thats all it was was a slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her refusal to say the words "radical Islam." Here is what she said, exact quote, "Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism." That is Hillary Clinton.
So, she says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France which has among the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, and 130 people were brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law abiding Americans, abolishing the Second Amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists with guns. No good. Not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.
Thank you.
She wants to take away Americans guns and then admit the very people who want to slaughter us. Let them come into the country, we dont have guns. Let them come in, let them have all the fun they want.
I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to protect themselves in this age of terror. I will be always defending the Second Amendment.

Thank you. Thank you.
The bottom line is that Hillary supports policies that bring the threat of radical Islam into American and allow it to grow oversees, and it is growing. In fact, Hillary Clintons catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our society but our entire way of life. When it comes to radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss. Its deadly  totally deadly.
The Obama administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence gathering and we have, just, no intelligence gathering information. We need this information so badly, and he stopped it. We dont have the support. We dont have the support of the law enforcement system because Obama is not letting them do their job. They are not being allowed to do their job. And, they can do it well  better than anybody.
We need a new leader. We need a new leader fast.

TRUMP: Thank you.
They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else. I refuse to be politically correct.

I want to do the right thing. I want to straighten things out and I want to make America great again.

The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon if Im elected. As president I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks. They dont have those tools now.

We need an intelligence gathering system second to none. Second to none. That includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials, and with our allies, very importantly. I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence and a Secretary of Defense wholl know how to fight a war on radical Islamic terrorism.

And they will have the support that they need to get the job done right, not like it is right now. Its not right.

We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need to understand the threat. The Senate subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 11th. Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obamas Department of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States. These Departments refused to comply. Nobody even knows why. They refused to comply.
President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activities of any kind since September 11th. So important. The public has a right to know how these people got here, how they came on to this great land, why are they here?

We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with or supporting radical groups and beliefs, very simple. We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country and we have to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America. Not complicated.

Every  and just think of this. Take a look. Every single event, even a single individual can be devastating, and all you have to do is take a look at what happened in Orlando and what happened in other cases. Just a single event. And just one person. Can you imagine what theyll do in large groups, which were allowing now to come here.
Truly our President doesnt know what hes doing. Hes failed us and hes failed us badly. Under his leadership this situation will not get any better, it will only get worse. And Ive been saying that for a long time. Each year the United States permanently admits 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East and many more from Muslim countries outside of the Middle East. Our government has been admitting ever- growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our own security.
In fact, Clintons State Department was in charge of admissions and the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas. Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan including a 500 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country. Tell me, tell me  how stupid is that?
This could be a better, bigger, more horrible version than the legendary Trojan Horse ever was. Altogether, under the Clinton plan, youd be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of the children and their children. Not only their children, by the way, theyre trying to take over our children and convince them how wonderful ISIS is and how wonderful Islam is and we dont know whats happening.
TRUMP: The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to really to screen. Were not screening people.
So why dont we have an effective screening system? We dont. Were being laughed at all over the world. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans. The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it, her plan will cost hundreds of billions of dollars long term.
Wouldnt this be money better spent rebuilding America for our current population including the many poor people already living here. We have cities, we have inner cities...

We have poverty all over and this is how were spending billions of dollars. We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States. We dont know who they are, they have no documentation and we dont know what theyre planning and we wont unless we have proper supervisor and proper leadership in which case theyre out of here. What I want...

What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes American values. Thats a choice I put before the American people. A mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit America or Hillary Clintons radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically correct special interests. Thats all it is. Weve got to get smart and tough and vigilant and weve got to do it now because later is too late  going to be too late for our country.
The media talks about home grown terrorism but Islamic radicalism and thats a very, very important term  a term that the president refuses to use and the networks that nurture it are imports from overseas whether you like it or whether you dont like it. Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of poor policies of the past.
But the whole point is that we will be much, much and it will be easier to deal with our current problem if we dont keep on bringing people who add to the problem. And thats what theyre doing. Were letting all of these people  hundreds of thousands of people come in and all theyre doing is adding to this incredible problem we have.
For instance, the controversial mosque attended by the Boston bombers had at its founder and as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot. This shooter and amazingly in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on earth. Why would we admit people who support violent hatred?
Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to our country and who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesnt share their views or values.

She cant have it both ways. She cant claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress these same communities. How does this kind of immigration make our lives better? How does this kind of immigration make our country better? Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people in in vast numbers who reject our values? Why? Explain.
Ask yourself who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Trump with actions or Hillary Clinton with her words?
TRUMP: I will tell you who the better friend is and some day I believe that will be proven out bigly (ph).

And by the way the LGBT community is just  whats happened to them is just so sad and to be thinking about where their policies are currently with this administration is a disgrace to that community, I will tell you right now.
Clinton wants to allow radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country. They enslave women, and they murder gays. I dont want them in our country.

Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesnt support our communities. All of our communities, every single one of them. Americans already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on Earth, anybody in the world. Four times more. At least, because we dont even know whos coming in. And we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.
Not surprisingly, wages for our workers havent budged. In almost 20 years. You wonder why we get the crowds, you wonder why we get this tremendous support, you wonder why Ive gotten more votes than any Republican in any primary in the history of the Republican Party? Take a look at that. Take a look at your security, take a look at the wages. For 18 years theyve been stagnant, theyve even gone down.
So whether its a matter of national security, or financial security, we cant afford to keep on going like this. Cannot afford it. We owe $19 trillion in debt. And no longer have any options. Our communities from all backgrounds are ready for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone. Its really an act of defense. I want us all, all of us, to work together. We have to form a partnership, with our Muslim communities. We have Muslim communities in this country that are great, and we have to form that partnership.
Now, the Muslim community, so important. They have to work with us. They have to cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad. They know it. And they have to do it, and they have to do it forthwith. I want to fix our schools. I want to fix our bridges. And our jobs market, were going to have it rocket again, were going to make great trade deals. But I want every American to succeed including Muslims.
But the Muslims have to work with us. They have to work with us. They know whats going on. They know that he was bad. They knew the people in San Bernardino were bad. But you know what? They didnt turn them in. And you know what? We had death, and destruction.
Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our citizens. I want to protect our citizens, all of our citizens. The terrorist attack on Pulse nightclub demands a full and complete investigation into every single aspect of the assault. In San Bernardino, as an example, people who knew what was going on, they knew exactly, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it. They said oh, "We thought so but we didnt want to use racial profiling." Which was probably an excuse given to them by their lawyer, so they dont get in trouble.
We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates. We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status. We have to know, and we have to know fast. We need to know if he traveled anywhere and who he traveled with. We need to know, and we need to make sure, every single last person involved in this plan, including anyone who knew something but didnt tell us, is brought to justice, so when people know whats going on and they dont tell us, and we have an attack, and people die, these people have to have consequences. Big consequences.

America must do more  much more  to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orientation, as you just saw in Orlando.
TRUMP: It also means we must change our foreign policy. The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS to expand and grow like nobody has ever seen before.
These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region. That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism not nation building. No more nation building. Its never going to work.
And by the way weve spent almost $5 trillion over the years on trying to nation build in the Middle East and it has been complete and total disaster. Were further away now than we were 15 years ago. For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clintons war in Libya. That mission helped to unleash ISIS on a new continent.
Ive said NATO need to change its focus and stop terrorism. We have to focus on terrorism and we have to stop terrorism. Since Ive raised that criticism and its OK. Ive gotten no credit for it but these are minor details  NATO has since announced a new initiative  front page of the Wall Street Journal four days ago focused on just that. America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terrorism.

Pretty much like we did with communism during the Cold War. We tried it President Obamas way, doesnt work. He gave the world his apology tour. We got ISIS and many other problems in return. Thats what we got. Remember the famous apology tour. Were sorry for everything.
Id like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solitarily with the people of Orlando who have come under this horrific attack. When Im president I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, I dont care. All Americans living here and following our laws not other laws will be protected.

Thank you. Thank you. Were going to be tough and were going to be smart and were going to do it right. America will be a tolerant and open society. America will also be a safe society. We will protect our borders at home. We will defeat ISIS overseas. We have no choice. We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety. We will make America rich again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.

Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Appreciate it. Thank you.

Good evening. Thank you very much. I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of Israel. I am a newcomer to politics but not to backing the Jewish state.
In late 2001, weeks after the attacks on New York City, and on Washington, and frankly the attacks on all of us, attacks that perpetrated... and they were perpetrated by the Islamic fundamentalists, Mayor Rudy Giuliani visited Israel to show solidarity with terror victims. I sent my plane because I backed the mission for Israel 100 percent.
In Spring of 2004, at the height of the violence in the Gaza Strip, I was the Grand Marshal of the 40th Salute to Israel Parade, the largest single gathering in support of the Jewish state. It was a very dangerous time for Israel and frankly for anyone supporting Israel, many people turned down this honor. I did not. I took the risk and Im glad I did.
But I didnt come here tonight to pander to you about Israel. Thats what politicians do. All talk, no action, believe me. I came here to speak to you about where I stand on the future of American relations with our strategic ally, our unbreakable friendship, and our cultural brother. The only democracy in the Middle East, the State of Israel.
My number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. I have been in business a long time. I know deal-making and let me tell you, this deal is catastrophic, for America, for Israel, and for the whole of the Middle East.
The problem here is fundamental. We have rewarded the worlds leading state sponsor of terror with $150 billion dollars, and we received absolutely nothing in return.
Ive studied this issue in great detail. I would say actually, greater by far than anybody else. Believe me, and its a bad deal. The biggest concern with the deal is not necessarily that Iran is going to violate it, because already, as you know, it has. The bigger problem is that they can keep the terms and still get the bomb by simply running out the clock. And of course, theyll keep the billions and billions of dollars that we so stupidly and foolishly gave them.
The deal doesnt even require Iran to dismantle its military nuclear capability. Yes, it places limits on its military nuclear program for only a certain number of years. But when those restrictions expire, Iran will have an industrial size military nuclear capability ready to go, and with zero provision for delay, no matter how bad Irans behavior is. Terrible, terrible situation that we are all placed in, and especially Israel.
When Im president, I will adopt a strategy that focuses on three things when it comes to Iran. First, we will stand up to Irans aggressive push to destabilize and dominate the region. Iran is a very big problem and will continue to be, but if Im not elected President, I know how to deal with trouble, and believe me, thats why Im going to be elected president folks. And we are leading in every poll, remember that please.
Iran is a problem in Iraq, a problem in Syria, a problem in Lebanon, a problem in Yemen, and will be a very, very major problem for Saudi Arabia. Literally every day, Iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states. Hezbollah, Lebanon received, and Ill tell you what, it has received sophisticated anti-ship weapons, anti-aircraft weapons, and GPS systems and rockets. like very few people anywhere in the world, and certainly very few countries have.
Now theyre in Syria trying to establish another front against Israel from the Syrian side of the Golan Heights. In Gaza, Iran is supporting Hamas and Islamic Jihad. And in the West Bank theyre openly offering Palestinians $7,000 per terror attack and $30,000 for every Palestinian terrorists home thats been destroyed. A deplorable, deplorable situation. Iran is financing military forces throughout the Middle East, and its absolutely incredible that we handed them over $150 billion to do even more toward the many horrible acts of terror.
Secondly, we will totally dismantle Irans global terror network, which is big and powerful, but not powerful like us. Iran has seeded terror groups all over the world. During the last five years, Iran has perpetrated terror attacks in 25 different countries on five continents. Theyve got terror cells everywhere, including in the western hemisphere very close to home. Iran is the biggest sponsor of terrorism around the world and we will work to dismantle that reach, believe me, believe me.
Third, at the very least, we must enforce the terms of the previous deal, to hold Iran totally accountable. And we will enforce it like youve never seen a contract enforced before folks. Believe me.
Iran has already since the deal is in place, test-fired ballistic missiles three times. Those ballistic missiles with a range of 1,250 miles were designed to intimidate not only Israel, which is only 600 miles away, but also intended to frighten Europe, and maybe someday hit even the United States. And were not going to let that happen. Were not letting it happen, and were not letting it happen to Israel, believe me.
Do you want to hear something really shocking? As many of the great people in this room know, painted on those missiles in both Hebrew and Farsi, were the words "Israel must be wiped off the face of the earth." You can forget that!
What kind of demented minds write that in Hebrew? And heres, you talk about twisted, heres another twisted part: testing these missiles does not even violate the horrible deal that we made! The deal is silent on test missiles, but those tests do violate United Nations Security Council resolutions. The problem is, no one has done anything about it. We will, we will, I promise we will.
Which brings me to my next point. The utter weakness and incompetence of the United Nations. The United Nations is not a friend of democracy. Its not a friend to freedom. Its not a friend even to the United States of America, where as you know, it has its home. And it surely is not a friend to Israel.
With President Obama in his final year, yay! He may be the worst thing to ever happen to Israel, believe me. Believe me, and you know it, and you know it better than anybody.
So with the president in his final year, discussions have been swirling about an attempt to bring a Security Council resolution on terms of an eventual agreement between Israel and Palestine. Let me be clear. An agreement imposed by the United Nations would be a total and complete disaster. The United States must oppose this resolution and use the power of our veto, which I will use as president, 100 percent.
When people ask why, its because thats not how you make a deal. Deals are made when parties come together. They come to a table and they negotiate. Each side must give up something it values, I mean we have to do something where theres value in exchange for something that it requires. Thats what a deal is. A deal is really something that when we impose it on Israel and Palestine, we bring together a group of people that come up with something. Thats not going to happen with the United Nations. It will only further, very importantly, it will only further delegitimize Israel. It will be a catastrophe and a disaster for Israel. Its not going to happen folks.
And further, it would reward Palestinian terrorism, because every day theyre stabbing Israelis, and even Americans. Just last week, American Taylor Allen Force, a West Point grad, phenomenol young person who served in Iraq and Afghanistan, was murdered in the street by a knife-wielding Palestinian. You dont reward behavior like that. You can not do it! There is only one way you treat that kind of behavior. You have to confront it!
So, its not up the United Nations to go with a solution. Its really the parties that must negotiate a resolution themselves. You have no choice. They have to do it themselves, or it will never hold up anyway. The United States can be useful as a facilitator of negotiations, but no one should be telling Israel that it must abide by some agreement made by others thousands of miles away that dont even really know whats happening to Israel, to anything in the area. Its so preposterous. Were not going to let that happen. When Im president, believe me, I will veto any attempt by the UN to impose its will on the Jewish state. It will be vetoed 100 percent.
You see, I know about deal-making. Thats what I do. I wrote The Art of the Deal. One of the best-selling, all-time, and I mean seriously, Im saying one of, because Ill be criticized as though I say the, so Im going to be very diplomatic. One of... Ill be criticized. I think it is number one, but why take a chance. One of the best-selling, all-time books about deals and deal making.
To make a great deal, you need two willing participants. We know Israel is willing to deal. Israel has been trying to sit down at the negotiating table without pre-conditions for years. You had Camp David in 2000, where Prime Minister Barak made an incredible offer, maybe even too generous. Arafat rejected it. In 2008, Prime Minister Olmert made an equally generous offer. The Palestinian Authority rejected it also. Then John Kerry tried to come up with a framework and Abbas didnt even respond, not even to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. They didnt even respond.
When I become President, the days of treating Israel like a second-class citizen will end on Day One. And when I say something, I mean it. I mean it. I will meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. I have known him for many years and well be able to work closely together to help bring stability and peace to Israel and to the entire region.
Meanwhile, every single day, you have rampant incitement and children being taught to hate Israel and hate the Jews. It has to stop. When you live in a society where the firefighters are the heros, little kids want to be firefighters. When you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are the heroes, little kids want to be athletes and movie stars. In Palestinian society, the heroes are those who murder Jews. we cant let this continue. We cant let this happen any longer.
You cannot achieve peace if terrorists are treated as martyrs. Glorifying terrorists is a tremendous barrier to peace. It is a horrible, horrible way to think. Its a barrier that cant be broken. That will end, and itll end soon, believe me. In Palestinian textbooks and mosques, youve got a culture of hatred that has been fermenting there for years, and if we want to achieve peace, theyve got to go out, and theyve got to start this educational process. They have to end education of hatred. They have to end it, and now!
There is no moral equivalency. Israel does not name public squares after terrorists. Israel does not pay its children to stab random Palestinians. You see, what President Obama gets wrong about deal making is that he constantly applies pressure to our friends and rewards our enemies. And you see that happening all the time. That pattern practiced by the President and his administration, including former Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, who is a total disaster by the way. She and President Obama have treated Israel very, very badly. But its repeated itself over and over again, and has done nothing to embolden those who hate America. We saw that with releasing the $150 billion dollars to Iran in the hope that they would magically join the world community. It didnt happen.
President Obama thinks that applying pressure to Israel will force the issue, but its precisely the opposite that happened. Already, half of the population of Palestine has been taken over by the Palestinian ISIS in Hamas, and the other half refuses to confront the first half, so its a very difficult situation thats never going to get solved, unless you have great leadership right here in the United States. Well get it solved, one way or the other. We will get it solved. But when the United States stands with Israel, the chances of peace really rise, and rises exponentially. Thats what will happen when Donald Trump is President of the United States.
We will move the American embassy to the eternal capital of the Jewish people, Jerusalem. And we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight between America and our most reliable ally, the State of Israel. The Palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is absolutely, totally unbreakable. They must come to the table willing and able to stop the terror being committed on a daily basis against Israel. They must do that. And they must come to the table willing to accept that Israel is a Jewish State and it will forever exist as a Jewish State.
I love the people in this room. I love Israel. I love Israel. Ive been with Israel so long in terms of, Ive received some of my greatest honors from Israel. My father before me, incredible. My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beautiful Jewish baby. In fact it could be happening right now which would be very nice as far as Im concerned.
So I want to thank you very much. This has been a truly great honor. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Wow. Thank you very much. Hello. Id like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in, very big numbers.
Im truly honored by your support. Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is and were only getting started and its going to be beautiful, remember that.
Tonight we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history, no matter who it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes. This is a great feeling. Thats a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible. Youve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall. Were going to do it. Were going to do it, folks. Were going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever let you down  too much work, too many people, blood, sweat and tears. Im never going to let you down. I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and thats what it is, is a movement.
Now recent polls have shown that Im beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that shes made and she has tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially. To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn your support and I will work very hard to earn that support. To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms. And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against and hes right on that will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible and thats what I do. We are going to have fantastic trade deals. Were going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now I know some people say Im too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however and Ive shown that. Ive shown that for a long time. I built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved, always. My goal is always again to bring people together. But if Im forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.
Thank you. Ive fought for my family. Ive fought for my business. Ive fought for my employees. And now, Im going to fight for you, the American people like nobody has ever fought before. And Im not a politician fighting, Im me. Youre going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: Im going to be your champion. Im going to be Americas champion because you see this election isnt about Republican or Democrat; its about who runs this country  the special interests or the people and I mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promise change. Obama promised change and it didnt work out too well. And every year they fail to deliver. Why would politicians want to change a system thats totally rigged in order to keep them in power? Thats what theyre doing, folks. Why would politicians want to change a system thats made them and their friends very, very wealthy? I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support, the only way you couldve done it  landslides all over the country with every demographic on track to win; 37 primary caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.
After years of disappointment, there is one thing we all have learned  we cant fix the rigged system by relying on very, and I mean this so, so strongly, on the very people who rigged it, and they rigged it, and do not ever think anything differently. We cant solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves. Theyve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars. Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. Something about how shes getting away with this folks nobody understands.
Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk and a President in a corrupt system is totally protecting her  not right. I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week and were going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think youre going to find it very informative and very, very interesting. I wonder if the press will want to attend, who knows.
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into her private hedge fund  the Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese  all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return. Its a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didnt need to do this. Its not easy, believe me. I didnt need to do it. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country which has been so good to me and to my family. Ive traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in peoples eyes. Ive visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs, they literally, these jobs have virtually disappeared, an embarrassment to our country and its horrible. Ive embraced the victims of illegal immigration, moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldnt have been in the country  remember it, folks, remember it.
I visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools. Ive seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges and Ive compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours its really not to be believed, hard to imagine whats happened to our country. America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly, auctioned off to the highest bidder. Were broke, were broke. We owe $19 trillion dollars going quickly to $21 trillion. Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. People are scared. The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd, what a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country, we love our country. But we can turn this all around. Were going to do it by putting America first. That commitment is the foundation for change thats been missing and its been missing for a long time. Its important to understand what America First means. It means on foreign policy we will never enter into any kind conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation. This is the opposite of Hillarys foreign policy which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migration which is wreaking havoc all over the world, and while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East and they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks. We have made them that way.
You better hope Im President. On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition. Whats happening there is absolutely a disgrace. No PPP, youre right about that and you mean no PP. We are going, and remember this; we are only going to have great trade deals, OK. We are only going to have that. Were not going to approve, as somebody just said, the TransPacific Partnership which is a disaster, a disaster, for our country, almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places, in particular Mexico. If its not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. Its got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and were suffering bigly and its getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up Americas great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers including our wonderful and hard-working miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this Administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for middle class Americans and business; likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level. We will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small business and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages and security of American workers, whether first or tenth generation. No matter who you are, were going to protect your job because let me tell you our jobs are being stripped from our country like were babies. The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges; its got to be that way. Now, the people in charge say things cant change. Im here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
Were going to put America back to work. Were going to make our own products. Were going to put America back to work. Were going to rebuild our inner cities which are absolutely a shame and so sad. Were going to take care of our African American people that have been mistreated for so long. Were going to make you and your family safe, secure and prosperous, prosperous again. Together, we will put the American people first again, first again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We will make our country strong again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again, remember. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.

Thank you for joining me today.

This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be.

Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president.

There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon.

But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders.

The attack on the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terrorist strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our countrys history.

So many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace.

The horror is beyond description.

The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated. Likewise, our whole nation, and indeed the whole world, is devastated.

We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families.

We mourn, as one people, for our nations loss  and pledge our support to any and all who need it.

I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of the attack.

[SILENCE]

Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando's LGBT Community.

This is a very dark moment in Americas history.

A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens because of their sexual orientation.

It is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation.

It is an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want and express their identity.

It is an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safety in their own country.

We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people  with force, purpose and determination.

But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and think and act clearly.

If we don't get tough, and we don't get smart  and fast  we're not going to have a country anymore -- there will be nothing left.

The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born to Afghan parents who immigrated to the United States. His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders those who dont share its radical views. The father even said he was running for President of that country.

The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first place was because we allowed his family to come here.

That is a fact, and it's a fact we need to talk about.

We have a dysfunctional immigration system which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens.

We have an incompetent administration, and if I am not elected President, that will not change over the next four years -- but it must change, and it must change now.

With fifty people dead, and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around the issue anymore -- we have to address it head on.

I called for a ban after San Bernardino, and was met with great scorn and anger but now, many are saying I was right to do so -- and although the pause is temporary, we must find out what is going on. The ban will be lifted when we as a nation are in a position to properly and perfectly screen those people coming into our country.

The immigration laws of the United States give the President the power to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons that the President deems detrimental to the interests or security of the United States, as he deems appropriate.

I will use this power to protect the American people. When I am elected, I will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies, until we understand how to end these threats.

After a full, impartial and long overdue security assessment, we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.

We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country, many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer.

Many of the principles of Radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions.

Radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti-American.

I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, and Jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by Radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence.
Its not just a national security issue. It is a quality of life issue.

If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans  women and children, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people  then we need to tell the truth about Radical Islam.

We need to tell the truth, also, about how Radical Islam is coming to our shores.

We are importing Radical Islamic Terrorism into the West through a failed immigration system -- and through an intelligence community held back by our president.

Even our own FBI Director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of the people we are letting into America.

All of the September 11th hijackers were issued visas.

Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.

The Boston Bombers came here through political asylum.

The male shooter in San Bernardino  again, whose name I won't mention -- was the child of immigrants from Pakistan, and he brought his wife  the other terrorist - from Saudi Arabia, through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.

Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five-fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99% of people in Afghanistan support oppressive Sharia Law.

We admit many more from other countries in the region who share these same oppressive views.

If we want to remain a free and open society, then we have to control our borders.

Yet, Hillary Clinton  for months and despite so many attacks  repeatedly refused to even say the words "radical Islam," until I challenged her yesterday to say the words or leave the race.

However, Hillary Clinton  who has been forced to say the words today after policies she supports have caused us so much damage  still has no clue what Radical Islam is, and wont speak honestly about what it is.

She is in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the world.

In fact, just a few weeks before the San Bernardino slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her refusal to say the words Radical Islam. Here is what she said: "Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism."

Hillary Clinton says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France, which has among the toughest gun laws in the world, and 130 were brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law-abiding Americans, abolishing the 2nd amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists with guns. She wants to take away Americans guns, then admit the very people who want to slaughter us.

I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a Presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to protect themselves in this age of terror.

The bottom line is that Hillary supports the policies that bring the threat of Radical Islam into America, and allow it to grow overseas.

In fact, Hillary Clintons catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more Radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our security but our way of life.

When it comes to Radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss  it's deadly.

The Obama Administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence-gathering and failing to support law enforcement. They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else.

I refuse to be politically correct.

I will do the right thing--I want to straighten things out and to Make America Great Again.

The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.

As President I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks.

We need an intelligence-gathering system second to none. That includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials  and with our allies.

I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence, and a Secretary of Defense who will know how to fight the war on Radical Islamic Terrorism  and who will have the support they require to get the job done.

We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need to understand the threat.

The Senate Subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 11th.

Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obama's Departments of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States.

These Departments refused to comply.

President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activity of any kind since 9/11.

The public has a right to know how these people got here.

We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with, or support, radical groups and beliefs.

We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America.

Even a single individual can be devastating, just look at what happened in Orlando. Can you imagine large groups?

Truly, our President doesn't know what he is doing. He has failed us, and failed us badly, and under his leadership, this situation will not get any better -- it will only get worse.

Each year, the United States permanently admits more than 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East, and many more from Muslim countries outside the Middle East. Our government has been admitting ever-growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our security.

In fact, Clinton's State Department was in charge of the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas.

Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan, including a 500% increase in Syrian refugees.

This could be a better, bigger version of the legendary Trojan Horse.

We can't let this happen.

Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you'd be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of their children.

The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to screen who we are bringing in.

The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans.

The burden is also on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it. Her plan will cost Americans hundreds of billions of dollars long-term.

Wouldn't this money be better spent on rebuilding America for our current population, including the many poor people already living here?

We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States  we don't know who they are, they have no documentation, and we don't know what they're planning.

What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes American values.

That is the choice I put before the American people: a mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit America, or Hillary Clinton's radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically-correct special interests.

We've got to get smart, and tough, and vigilant, and we've got to do it now, because later is too late.

The media talks about "homegrown," terrorism, but Islamic radicalism, and the networks that nurture it, are imports from overseas.

Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of the poor policies of the past. But the whole point is that it will be much, much easier to deal with our current problem if we dont keep on bringing in people who add to the problem.

For instance, the controversial Mosque attended by the Boston Bombers had as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot.

This shooter in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on Earth. Why would we admit people who support violent hatred?

Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to our country who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesnt share their views.

She cant have it both ways. She cant claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress them.

How does this kind of immigration make our life better? How does this kind of immigration make our country better?

Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people herein vast numberswho reject our values?

Ask yourself, who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Trump with his actions, or Hillary Clinton with her words? Clinton wants to allow Radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our countrythey enslave women, and murder gays.

I dont want them in our country.

Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesnt support our communities  all of our communities.

America has already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on earth, and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.

Not surprisingly, wages for our workers havent budged in many years.

So whether its matter of national security, or financial security, we cant afford to keep on going like this. We owe $19 trillion in debt, and no longer have options.

All our communities, from all backgrounds, are ready for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone; it is an act of defense.

I want us all to work together, including in partnership with our Muslim communities. But Muslim communities must cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad  and they do know where they are.

I want to fix our schools, roads, bridges and job market. I want every American to succeed. Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our own citizens.

I want to protect our citizens  all of our citizens.

The terrorist attack on the Pulse Night Club demands a full and complete investigation into every aspect of the assault.

In San Bernardino, as an example, people knew what was going on, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it.

We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates.

We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical Mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status.

We need to know if he travelled anywhere, and who he travelled with.

We need to make sure every single last person involved in this plan  including anyone who knew something but didn't tell us  is brought to justice.

If it can be proven that somebody had information about any attack, and did not give this information to authorities, they must serve prison time .

America must do more  much more  to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orientations.

It also means we must change our foreign policy.

The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS to expand and grow.

These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region.

That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism, not nation-building.

For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clinton's war in Libya. That mission helped unleash ISIS on a new continent.

I've said NATO needs to change its focus to stopping terrorism. Since I've raised that criticism, NATO has since announced a new initiative focused on just that.

America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terrorism, just like we did against communism in the Cold War.

We've tried it President Obama's way. He gave the world his apology tour, we got ISIS, and many other problems, in return.

I'd like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solidarity with the people of Orlando who have come under attack.

When I am President, I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside of our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, all Americans living here and following our laws will be protected.

America will be a tolerant and open society.

America will also be a safe society.

We will protect our borders at home.

We will defeat ISIS overseas.

We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety.

We will make America rich again.

We will make America safe again.

We will make American Great Again.

Thank you.

...Were doing really well. Iowas been amazing. Its been amazing. Were doing so well and I love this place and Im back here all the time and Im going to be here a lot in January.
Youre going to be so sick of me. Youll probably say, "We cant give  the caucus, just forget it. We cant stand the guy any more."
No, youre going to like me and were going to be back and were going to do a great job for you. Most importantly, were going to get to that office and were going to do the right thing. Were going to do the right thing.
So, a few things. A lot  so much has happened.
You know, when we first came out, we were all talking together. And we were talking border security, which were just doing so great with the border security.
Were going to build a wall. Mexicos going to pay for the wall. We all know that. But were going to have security. And the drugs are going to stop and the people that are going to come into the country but theyre going to come into the country theyre going to be legal, theyre coming in legally, and thats the way. Thats the way.
And it affects Iowa so much.
So we were talking about. So we were talking about that. We were talking about repealing Obamacare. Boom. Its going to be repealed. Its going to be replaced.
I dont know if youve been seeing whats happening but Obamacare is a total disaster. Its dying of its own weight.
And by 17, meaning hell be playing golf and Ill be working very hard. But 17 instead youre not getting the people signed up. Theres been a lot of talk about it and a lot of stories about it.
Obamacares dead but well terminate it quicker than that.
And we will come up with something that will be so good, so much better.
Premiums are going through the roof. Deductibles are so high that unless youre close to death, youll never going to get to use. And even then I dont think youre going to get to use it really.
So, were going to take care of that.
And by the way, we have a lot of good people. We have ethanol. Nobody is really  we have the ethanol  where are the ethanol people? Right?
I was here a month ago and I met with them all and they do a fantastic job. I toured the plants and they do a fantastic job but its so important. And its another form of lets stay away from OPEC and lets stay away from that Middle East stuff. Its so important...
Actually what I dont understand because the one guy thats doing pretty good with me in Iowa is Ted Cruz and hes a nice guy. I mean, everything I say he agrees with me. No matter what I say.
I was going to do one really wild but he agrees.
But with the ethanol, really, hes got to come a long way because hes right now for the oil.
But I understand it. Oil pays him a lot of money. Hes got to be for oil, right? The oil companies give him a lot of money.
But Im with you. Im with everybody. Look, Im self funding. I have no oil company. I have no special interest. I have no lobbyist that want me and you know, theyre representing countries that are ripping off the country, theyre representing companies that are ripping off our country.
All I do is Im going to be working for you folks. Were going to do this thing together. Were going to make America so great again and maybe better than ever before. So important.
So when we first started, I talked about China how theyre ripping us and Japan and Mexico.
Mexico both at the border and in trade. Theyre taking so many of our companies. Nabiscos moving there with their big plant. Ford is moving there with a big plant. They took a big plant away from Tennessee  a great state  they took it away at the last moment.
Im not going to let that stuff. Were going to do what we have to do, okay?
But I talked about that...and I talk about it a lot. The fact is that about 2.5 weeks ago with Paris, Im speaking a little bit differently now.

Believe me, I can take care of China in my back pocket. Thats easy for me. Thats what I do.
And we have all the cards. A lot of people dont know. You know, these politicians they dont understand we have the cards.
You know, with China, our people pay tax. They pay no tax. Its not supposed to be that way. They call it a tariff because it sounds better. But well take care of that. Well take care of all of that.
What happened is with Paris, theres a different mindset.
And when the polls came out last week, my numbers went way up because people felt more secure with me.
Now, maybe it had to do  who knows why? Who knows?
But my poll numbers went up. And do you ever notice whenever theres something that I do thats proper but controversial, theyd say "Oh, now hes gone. Thats it. Thats the end."
I wont go over all of the different things because maybe youll change your minds.
But theyd say, "Thats it. Its over."
And then theyd come in, "Sir, your poll number went up 9 points this week." I said, "They did?" Because I have to do whats right. I have to do whats right.
And you know what? If I dont make it, I dont make it.
I have a good life. We all hopefully have a good life. I have a great family, nice people, wonderful people. They love me. I think. I hope. I think. But I have a great family and I built a great business.
...Theres such spirit...Theres such spirit no matter where I go. You know, I go to Dallas. We have 20,000. 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 people in Oklahoma. Wherever we go in Iowa, we have these crowds. You know this is supposed to be...for like a record.
It is big and yet it feels intimate. It feels good...
...So I changed a couple of weeks ago. When I saw Paris I changed. And a big, big part of what Im doing now is safety and security and smartness and smartness.
Sort of interesting. You know, the slogan is "Make America Great Again" and Im adding "Make America Great Again and Safe Again" because we dont feel safe anymore.
And the problem we have now that weve never had to this extent is the power of weaponry. Its the power. Its the tremendous power.
You know, 100 years ago, I would have said "Lets not go." I said "Dont go there" anyway. And I said it strongly "Dont go. Youre going to destabilize the Middle East."
But the fact is right now, were going to have to do things because we have some really, really sick degenerates.
And the press  look at all those cameras going all live, all  you know, nobody else has cameras like this. They can make a speech 100 times they make a speech, nobody cares. Look at this.
And dont worry, they never pan the crowd. You know, they never; they have me. Thats why Im walking around. I figured Ill walk around maybe theyll get the crowd. They never pan the crowd. I tell them "Pan the crowd", they never do.
...I had a crowd 7,000 people last week. More. 7,000 people and in a confined space. They had 3,000 people outside that couldnt get in. My wife says, "Darling, the speech was excellent. Did you have many people there?" I said "What?" She said, "Well, they never leave your face." They keep it purposely. But Ill tell you the cameras may be a little screwed up where you cant move them, right?
But every time theres a protester "Well, Im protesting" and it can be in the back lefthand corner of the room, the cameras swoop over there. Its true. Its true. Its true.
No, I used to think they couldnt move. You know, maybe theres something with the crazy computers.
You know, in the old days everything was better right? The car seats. Youd sit in your car and you want to move forward and back, you press a button. Bing, bing. Now, you have to open up things, press a computer, takes you 15 minutes.
Well, the same thing I figured with cameras. I didnt think they moved. I figured they were fixed for certain reasons. And then I saw a protester and those cameras were bent in positions like you wouldnt believe possible.
So, theyre very dishonest people. What can I say? Not all of them but most of them.

Ill tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard. The Des Moines Register is the worst. They are the worst. The worst. No, theyre very dishonest.
You have some reporter named Jacobs. She is the worst. She will write  so  its such misrepresentation. And so I dont care. I mean, who cares? So Im saying it right in their backyard. Theyre failing anyway. They probably wont be in business in two years. I think theyre losing a fortune. I think.
You know, its funny. Every time the Des Moines Register does a poll, I always do badly.
...Im only doing this so they dont sue me but I dont mind if they do. I hope they sue me because they dont have enough money to sue me. Thats the good thing.
But I believe and I may be wrong  in fact, Ill say Im sure Im wrong but its my opinion that they dont do it properly because you know they poll like 300 or 400 people. Ill explain it...You know, if they lose 20 people in the pocket. "Oh, Trump? Oh, forget that one. Forget that one."
Now, I dont know that they do that. Do you do that, Des Moines Register?
But every time I have a Des Moines Register poll, I do poorly. I also do poorly with the Bloomberg polls. I dont know why.
But we had a great poll come in  CNN last couple of days  where were leading I think by 13 points in Iowa. In Iowa.
And then we have another coming where were doing well.
But I think Des Moines Register has somebody says its coming out sometime. Ill just tell you, watch  "Trump disappears!"
I think were going to do so well. I think were actually going to even do better. You know, were leading in most of the poll. Were leading in every poll.
Except Iowa there was one poll  there was one poll, Monmouth  Id never even heard Monmouth. What the hell is Monmouth? What is Monmouth? Explain it. I dont like Monmouth. You know why I dont like it? Because they always treat me badly also.
But I only like polls that treat me well.
But were doing so well. Nationwide, were leading every poll by tremendous. We just had one in Georgia  44%. 44%. Think of that. Thats 44% with 15 people. Id take 44% if we had three people. I dont think Id take it if we had two people but I think Id take if we had three. But 44%.
CBS came out as you know, you probably saw that, New York Times two days ago and were at 35% to a small number. Were killing everybody in every poll. Just one little outlier here.
...Again, Im sure when Des Moines comes out itll be a negative because I dont believe that poll.
But we are going to win. And Ill tell you what. Honestly, Iowa is so important to me. I could say, "Oh, lets not do"  I am an evangelical. I am a Christian. Im a Presbyterian. Im a Presbyterian. I love Billy Graham.
Franklin Graham came out with the most beautiful statements. Franklin Graham. He was so incredible. He came out  I dont know if you all saw the statements he came out with about Trump...He was so incredible. Franklin Graham was amazing, the son of Billy Graham, who was, you know, theres nobody, nobody that Ive ever seen  Billy Graham was unbelievable. If anybodys gone to his crusades, they were incredible.
But so I think were going to do  were doing really well with the evangelicals...
And by the way and again, I do like Ted Cruz but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba in all fairness. Its true. Not a lot come out. But I like him nevertheless.
I think were going to do great and we are doing great with evangelicals. Were doing great with the Tea Party, leading with the Tea Party.
And were doing fantastic with all the young and middle. Were doing great with everybody.
And so its very important for me to win Iowa.

Now, I could put less pressure on myself and I could say, "Oh, I dont care about Iowa. I dont care." But I do care. I do care so much about it. Thats why were here all the time.
And then the lies happened. You know, when I was using Iowa, they lied so much. I said, "The people of Iowa cant be that stupid or the people of the country cant  ". Im trying to make a point, right? So I said, "The people of the country cant be that stupid." Well, they cut the "country" out so its referring to Iowa.
I love you people. Remember that. Remember that.
I was talking about something, and I wont even mention what Im talking about because the guy Im talking about and was actually a very good guy.
But I will say this. We want to win Iowa so bad. Because if I win Iowa, I think wed run the table. I really do. I think wed run the table. Wed go right through.
Because were leading big in New Hampshire  every poll. Big. Big in New Hampshire. Christie got an endorsement from this crazy newspaper up there. Its the weirdest deal Ive ever seen.
And you know the paper that was in his state called up and said, "Are you sure about that? Nobody ever called us." They cant believe it. And we can get into that but its irrelevant.
But were leading New Hampshire big. Were leading in South Carolina like monstrous numbers. Were leading...Nevada. Were leading in Texas. Were leading everywhere. Were leading big in Florida.
Now, you have Rubio  nice guy, by the way. You have Rubio and he is a nice guy but youve got to vote. When people put you in a position to be a Senator, youve got to go and vote. You cant be the number one person that doesnt vote in the Senate. Youve got to say, "Hey, Im a young guy. I want to go and vote." You should stay there a little longer. Hes a good guy. Stay there, go in, vote, create a nice record.
But I dont know. Hows he doing in Iowa? Not too good. Right? Hes not doing well. Hows Rubio doing? Not good.
I mean, it seems like a two-person race right now...and its an important race to me. So I just want to let you know its very important.
So with all of that, if we win Iowa, a lot of people say wed just go through. I think well win virtually every state in the Union and its over quickly. Over quickly.
...What about the Republican establishment? The establishments got a problem, you know. Its sort of like the fighters. You know, the great champions. Sometimes theyll go into the hometown of a guy theyre fighting and theyll say, "You know, wed never want to get a decision. We go for the knock-out. The knock-out is the knock-out." Because you get a lot of bad decisions. I know a lot about the world of sports, believe me, and they go into a hometown to fight and its a decision and they say, "Uh, were in a problem" and theyd lose the fight that they won. The only way they win the fight definitely  knock out.
So, if we win Iowa, I think were going to win everything after that. So I think its going to show how important Iowa is.
...Ill pledge this to Iowa. Even if I lose, Ill pledge it, okay? I dont think Ive ever said that in my life. If we go and win, Iowas staying right where it is in the chain. Its not moving. You know, theres a big move to move Iowa into a much further back position by the establishment. Folks, I win its not happening, okay? Youre staying right here because its great. Its great.

...Youve been paying into Social Security and Medicare, by the way. Lets put them in. Because Medicare does work. With both, you have tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse. Were going to take care of that. Okay?
But were not going to cut your Social Security and were not cutting your Medicare. Were going to take jobs back from all these countries that are ripping us off. Were going to become a wealthy country again. And were going to be able to save your Social Security.
...I cant believe this number but I read it over  who is the man that told me the number  over 6 million people  I cant believe it  are aged 112 and over are getting Social Security...But I heard it. I read it. A tremendous  like 6 million people are getting Social Security. Theyre dead. Meaning somebody else is picking up...
...The press is going to have to check it because what do I know? But can you imagine, we have 6 million  now, we know theres not 6 million, there may be one. But theres not 6 million.
Anybody in this room 112 or over? Because if they are, I want to shake your hand.
But  so 6 million over 112 years old picking up Social Security and thats the beginning. So theres tremendous waste, fraud, and abuse.
What were going to do is were going to save Medicare. Were going to save Social Security. Were not going to raise the age or were not going to do all the things that everyone else is talking about doing. Theyre all talking about doing it, and you dont have to. Were going to bring our jobs back. Were going to make our economy incredible again.
My tax proposal, which is in, and a great detail in terms of policy and its gotten tremendous reviews from a lot of people, a lot of great groups.
But we are going to cut taxes tremendously for the middle class and for businesses because our middle class is being decimated.
And when that happens, youre going to see an economy that takes off. Were going to get rid of a lot of that debt, if not all of it. But were going to get rid of it  you know, were at $19 trillion going t $21 trillion right.
You know, if you go back eight or nine years, trillion wasnt even a word anybody knew and now its like routine.
So we are going to save your Social Security without cuts. Were going to bring the economy back. Were going to make ourselves rich again.
A woman said to me in New Hampshire recently, she said, "Mr. Trump, Im voting for you. I love you. But its very crude when you say youre going to make our country rich again." I said, "I know its crude. It sounds bad. But many things I say are crude. It sounds bad. But we cant make our country great again unless we make our country rich again. We cant let everybody in the world rip us off.

...We just did a big interview with CNN just before this. And you know, Hillary  was Hillary missing today? What happened? She was two hours late. No, did you hear?
Now, I may be wrong. If Im one minute off, theyll call me because they love Hillary. They love her. You know why. I dont know why. Why? Im trying to figure it. No, I heard she was a couple of hours late. Everybody left. You know what happened? She was sleeping. Im telling you. She couldnt get out of bed. She was sleeping. She was sleeping. Was right.
...

Remember, we built China. The money they took out of country, we rebuilt China. You go there, they have bridges all over the  they have bridges like the George Washington Bridge. Maybe I shouldnt mention that particular bridge. But like bigger like the George Washington Bridge. Only a few people got that one; thats okay.
But they have bridges going up. We have rebuilt China. Theyve taken our jobs. Theyve taken our base. Theyve taken our manufacturing all over the place. Theyve taken our money. Theyve taken our money. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen.
I know the great business people. We have the greatest business people in the world. Guys like Carl Icahn. He calls me, "Donald, I want to help. I want to help." The smartest people call. Were not going to use the special interest guy  a donor.
We use donors to negotiate with China because he gave some guy like, you know, whoever it might be. Because again, Im the only one thats self-funding my campaign. Everybody else isnt.
These guys  when these guys give money to politicians to a large extent they own those politicians. They will do whatever the hell the special interests and the donors want.
Thats not going to happen with me.
So, Social Security  were saving it. Medicare  were saving it. Were going to make our country rich. Okay? Thank you, sweetheart.

...Yeah, its called the statute of limitations, right? And you know its a six-year year statute. Maybe five but its probably six. But its a six-year statute. Yeah, you have to look at it.
Look, Hillary Clinton  you know this story. Its a crime. She committed a crime.
Now, perhaps  perhaps  somebody, you know, we have to have a fair Justice Department and perhaps...well have some really good Attorney General thats going to say "Well, you know".
Look, we want to be fair to everybody. Okay? Including Hillary Clinton. But she committed a crime in my opinion.
Now, she shouldnt be allowed to run. Shes being protected absolutely. I have little doubt that theyre going to find anything. But theyve already found it.
I mean, you watch television. You have all these big scholars, these lawyers, "Yes, she violated section so and so". Just one after another. I mean, actually violated many, many laws, not just like a little one here. Many laws.
You mentioned General Petraeus. His life was destroyed over 5% of what Hillary Clinton did. Over nothing.
So I think shes going to be their nominee definitely. The only question is whether or not shell be allowed to run. Shes being protected by the Democrats. Shes being protected by the President. And thats why  why do you think shes going along with these insane policies of his? Okay? I mean, she goes along with everything.
I dont even  honestly in all fairness to her, I dont think she believes it. But I think shes afraid hes going to say, "Listen, I dont like her anymore. Go take care of her. Im going to get somebody else." Im telling you.
So, the question is statute of limitations. Its a five year statute of limitations. Shes got a problem. Shes got a problem. In one way, shes running for her life because I know one thing, if she wins thats the end of that. Right? But if she loses she could have a very serious problem.
...

...Well, I said right at the beginning. Were going to build a wall thats going to be a real wall. Thats going to be a real wall.
Its not going to be  you see that ceiling? That ceiling is nothing compared to the wall. And we can build it and we can build it right. And it will be strong and powerful and as beautiful as a wall is going to look. Its got to be beautiful because someday theyre going to name it the Trump Wall. I know that. Its going to happen. Going to happen.
And its going to work. And walls do work.
You know, they wanted to build a wall here 20 years ago. You know they couldnt get environmental impact statements. Thats just shows you.
China is building in the South China Sea massive military bases. Right? Why? Theyre not supposed to. They have no respect for Obama or our country. Theyre not supposed to be doing that. And you could get them to stop just by saying "Were not doing business with you anymore." Their whole economy would  you dont have to go to war. Its economics. The whole country would collapse in two seconds. Believe me. We have such power and we dont know it.
But theyre building massive  now, they had little islands. They put the biggest escavators, not Caterpillars. I think theyre using Komatsu from Japan...They have these massive escavators, and I said to a friend of mine whos Chinese from China  very rich guy, very successful guy, paid me a fortune for an apartment so I happen to like him, okay?  I said jokingly "How long did it take them to do these massive islands theyre building right out of the sea? Boom, those shovels go in, take out everything. How long did it take you to get the environmental impact statements?" He laughed. He said, "What are you kidding me? Nothing." They say "We will build there." About two seconds later, you have escavators digging.
So we had a problem with environmental  look, Ive won many environmental awards. Im a big believer especially in clean air and clean water. Im a big believer. Just so you know. Big. And Ive gotten so many awards for the environment. So I understand the environment; Ive won many, many awards.
But when you look at how were impinged and hurt. But the wall was stopped because they couldnt get an environmental impact statement among other things. They couldnt get an environmental impact statement.
Now, there was probably a snail or a turtle or a snake or something. You were ruining the habitat of a rattlesnake. I dont know. But they actually had people  a lot of people  people that now would be against it but they wanted to build a wall and years ago they couldnt get it done.
...You know, I said bomb the oil, right? Ive been saying that for three years. Now finally they started  after Paris they started bombing the oil. Ive been saying it for years.
You know one of the reasons we didnt bomb the oil? Obama didnt want to hurt the environment. Now, I heard that and I thought somebody was kidding. I thought a comedian was saying it. It turned out to be true. He didnt want the flames and everything going into the atmosphere. This is the way we fight today.
Im telling you, folks, were being led by stupid people. Were being led by stupid people.
Ive been saying not really bomb  Ive been saying take the oil. I didnt want to go into Iraq. But once we were there, I said "Look, we shouldnt have been there. But then when we left, we left the wrong way."
First of all, we have a president who told them a date. "Were going to leave on such and such a date." What was it like 18 months later? So the enemy all of sudden said, "Wow", cause dont believe it. They dont want to be killed. Okay? They dont want to be killed. So the enemy said "Theyre going to leave on a certain date?" So they pulled back, the date comes, and now you see what happened. Its a disaster and Iran is taking over Iraq.
So anyway, I couldnt believe it when they said that. When we said to our 50 soldiers two weeks ago and our president gets up and announces "We are sending 50 soldiers."
Okay, first of all, he thinks its a good press announcement. Its not. 50 soldiers  thats not a lot even though theyre the elite. But those 50 soldiers because of that announcement have a target on their heart. They have a target on their heart.
Why does he have to say that for? Why cant he let 50 soldiers go there quietly, stealth, stealth? Why cant he just do that? Why cant he do that?
Those 50 soldiers are in grave danger today because of that, and they probably dont even know that but everybody is looking for them and thats the way it is.
We have people that dont know what theyre doing.
We used to have General MacArthur  Douglas MacArthur  General George Patton. I mean, these were real people. These were real people.
Today, we have generals that go on talk shows...I saw a general the other day on a talk show. He said  and this was serious and hes a good man. Theyre good men. But youve got to lead these men. Even the generals have to have some power over them. He said, "We are in the worst shape in terms of preparedness that weve been in in decades." And this is the time when we have to be in the best shape because the world wants to kill us.
And he said we are in the worst shape weve been in many, many decades.
Now, number one, he shouldnt be saying that because youre telling the enemy that and the enemy feels embolden when they hear that. Right? We shouldnt be saying it. We shouldnt be saying it.
I mean, even if its true, you dont say it. You get it fixed and you do the opposite.
One thing Im going to do Ill tell you, Im going to build our military so big and so strong and so powerful  so powerful that nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody is going to mess with us.
You know in many ways, its the cheapest thing you can do. Everyone is toying with us right now. Its the cheapest thing you can do. The absolute cheapest thing you can do.

...Im a big Second Amendment person by the way.
...My sons are really great marksmen. Theyre big believers. And Im a member of the NRA but Im not such a good shot. But theyre great shots so its one of those things.
But if you think about that question. So you know theres tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns, get rid of the magazines, no bullets. How about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine? ...So the people will put three bullets in. I dont think the bad guys are going to say, "Well, I dont want to break the law. Im going to go kill people today but Im going to put three bullets in." Right?
These people  and you know I have arguments with them all the time and Im a practical guy. Honestly, if I didnt believe this, I couldnt say it.
So in France or in California, I have a permission to carry, which is a big thing in New York. Its very hard to get. I have a license to carry.
But in France or in California or in all these places where we see the shooters, right, if instead of having like in France hundreds of people in that room  Paris has the toughest gun laws in the world. France has the toughest gun laws in the world. Nobody has guns. Except the bad guys.
So they walk in with the worst, the toughest, the best weaponry you could have and they said, "Over here  boom. Over here  boom." So they killed 128 but many more are dying right now. Theyre in terrible shape in the hospitals. They just wipe the place out and they couldve stayed there for longer. They wiped it out.
Then you had those two sleaze bags from California. The married couple. I saw the press  "The young married couple that did the shooting". Theyre not a young married couple. Theyre the worst. Theyre sleaze.
...They say "The young married couple". Thats no young married couple.
So they walk into a place and they killed 14 people and others are going to be dying probably because of a lot of other wounded people.
But if somebody had guns in there  nobody had a gun...How would you have done if you had a gun? Would you have been firing back a little bit? Theyd been in trouble. Right? They would have been in trouble. Believe me. That guy.
So, you know, I went to like an Ivy League college and I have a lot of friends that are against guns and I argue with them. I talk to them. I said, "Okay, were in Paris. You have all these places and theres hundreds of people. Guys walk in with guns and you have no gun. Dont you think they wouldve been better if they had?" They cant  they lose the argument but they never change their mind.
So we have to fight for the Second Amendment. Its so simple. Its so simple.
And believe me, believe me, they want to take those guns away and you always know that the bad ones are going to have the guns and theyre going to have them more so than ever before. So were going to protect the Second Amendment if Im president. That I can tell you.
And by the way, were going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Do you ever notice?
...And by the way, Merry Christmas everybody. Merry Christmas. And happy holiday.
Frankly, I have a lot of friends that arent Christian. They like Christmas. Everybody likes Christmas. Its politically incorrect to say Merry Christmas. But when Im president, Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays, enjoy yourselves, dont eat too much turkey. Right?
Okay, so were going to say Merry Christmas again folks. Were going to bring that spirit back.

...I really do. I like Ted Cruz a lot. And hes doing well. Im doing well. I mean, its not a contest between the two of us, just so we understand. We have to make that  but I do like him.
And I would say that we would certainly have things in mind for Ted, to be honest with you.
I mean, hes somebody that I can certainly see that because I like him, he likes me. He actually put out a tweet tonight. He said "Donald Trump is"  I think he used the word  "terrific". Thats a nice word. I mean, whoever hears that?
I can tell you other candidates are not exactly saying that about me. Right?
...

...So the Super PACs are horrible and I had many set up for me by people I didnt know. I mean, Id see them on television talking about  somebody named one "The Art of the Deal PAC". Two young guys. They look good. I mean, I dont know.
But then I got to be, you know, started going around and I see the corruption with these Super PACs, with the stuff towards money. People that put the money in are dealing with the candidates. The whole thing is wrong.
And I see it. I mean, Bush has $125 million. Think of it. $125 million. By the way, if he had $2 billion it wouldnt make any difference. Okay?
But Bush has $125 million. And honestly, hes a nice person. He is. I dont want to do that but hes a very nice person. But its $125 million. And youd say to yourself, "People give $2 million, $5 million, $7 million. You know whats happening."
But some of the Super PACs are running campaigns. Theyre actually running the campaign.
Another thing and its sort of interesting, one of the Super PACs I believe has $6 million. Of the $6 million  this was reported on the front page of the Los Angeles Times  one of the candidates whos a nice person so Im not going to mention the name. You know, when I like people I like them. Im a very loyal person.
Of the $6 million after all of the bloodsuckers took their cuts, the fundraisers  can you believe this?  they had $140,000 left for the campaign. Thats better than being a real estate broker. Id rather do that than sell houses. $140,000 left. That was in the newspaper. I dont know. I think I believe it.
But Ive seen it. I saw it with the Romney campaign. Guys made tens of millions of dollars raising money for Romney. I said what the hell is this? I mean, you give money and they get a cut.
Look, our laws are so corrupt. Our campaign finance laws are so totally corrupt. Its so horrible. So horrible.
And I dont necessarily want to stop people from giving because I think thats a good thing but you have to get away from these PACs.
What you have to have is people have to know who it is. So you have to open up the process. Let people know. If somebody wants to give $1 million, you give $1 million but everybody has to know that so and so gave $1 million because that puts a little pressure on guys like Brad who raises hundreds of millions. Puts a little pressure.
But the concept of the PAC is no good. Its no good. Its a very dangerous, terrible thing. So we will change our laws because you really have no choice. Its so out of control. Its so terrible.
But the papers that are in this room tonight, they should look at this. Theres so little money left over for the candidates, its one of the reasons why Im so happy Im doing my own.
We actually sent legal letters to either nine or 11 PACs. The Trump PAC, the Trump PAC, the this PAC. First of all, Im sure that out of some of them they stole the money. Some guy has no money. He sets up a Trump something PAC. Nothing to do with me. Sets it up. All of a sudden hes got $2 million sitting there. Right? People send in money. And that guy has no money. How much of that money do you think hes going to use to do what hes supposed to be doing? Thats common sense. So maybe all of it but I doubt it.
So we sent legal notices to every one that we could find. We dont want their money. We said "Dont do it. We dont want it. And we want ideally to give the money back to the people that gave it to you."
But the Super PAC concept is corrupt. Its terrible and it should be ended. And were going to go to new campaign finance laws that are going to be terrific. Okay? Thank you.

...Well, look hes [referring to Cruz] from Texas. To the best of my knowledge, theres a lot of oil in Texas. Right? So you know, he gets a lot of money from the oil companies and hes totally against ethanol and everything else youre talking about.
And Im not. Im totally in favor.
And you know, its a big industry here. Its a big industry.
You know, if that industry is upset, Iowas got problems.
I was amazed. I was here three weeks ago with the group...They were such amazing people...And I learned so much about it. I was in favor of it even before...
...Beyond even the fuel capacities, which we want to create as much as we can, tremendous numbers of jobs in Iowa. And I said to myself, if Ted Cruz is against ethanol, how does he win in Iowa? Because thats very anti-Iowa. I dont know how he wins in Iowa. I dont know.
No, but Im totally for it. Okay? Thank you.

...I was a member of the establishment six months ago. I gave $350,000 to the RGA. Thats the Republican Governors Association. I gave tremendous amounts of money away. I was like the fair haired boy.
Once I said Im running, they said "What? Youre not supposed to run."
And then what happened  I ran against all these Senators and Governors. And everyone said "Well, I dont know." My wife said "If you run, youre going to win" because she understands that I like people  I love people and people love me. And she said "You will run but you actually have to go and run. You have to announce youre running because nobodys going to believe youre running."
And so I didnt want to announce because I didnt want to like announce and things didnt work out and Im like some of these guys where theyre zero. Many of them zero.
And so finally I said, "Look, lets  were going to do it. We have to do it."
Just too many things that I watch on television with our president and the decisions that are made  Bergdahl  where we get Bergdahl and they get five killers. We get this horrible, dirty rotten spy  horrible traitor. We get this horrible, terrible traitor and they get five killers that theyve wanted for nine years  the worst killers  and theyre all back on the battlefield.
You know, so many decisions. The Iran deal. The Iran deal. How bad is that? They self-inspect. "Okay, good. Were not building. We promise were not building nuclear weapons." "Oh, okay. Thats okay."
And we give them $150 billion and we dont even get our prisoners back. The whole thing is crazy. So I saw this. And I said to my wife, "Hey, I dont know if Ill do well or not. Who the hell knows?"
And its a risky thing. And Ive always heard if youre a very successful person you cant run for office, especially for president, and I see it all the time. And the people go after me. I dont even care at this point. I said, "I have to do it. Now, were going to have to do it."
And I look at it last time with Romney and I didnt do it and I probably should have because he let us down. I mean, look, he let us down.
That was an election  we had a failed president. Four years ago he was a failed president, just as bad as he is now. Its true. And Romney let us down. That last month  it was like he wasnt even campaigning.
I said, "Why arent you on Jay Leno? Why arent you on David Letterman? Why arent you doing it?" And he just didnt do it. So he lost the election.
So I backed McCain, he lost. I backed Romney, he lost. This time I said Im doing it myself, okay? Were going to win. Were going to win.
But there is an establishment out there. Its a real establishment. Real people. And theyre people that are used to having their little puppets all over the place. And theyre people that are used to giving donations and having control.
And theyre people that, you know, look when they call me Ill treat them with respect but Im not going to be doing bad things if its bad for the country. Im not going to let Ford build a plant in Mexico if I can keep it in Michigan.
And Im not going to let the car companies and Nabisco and all these people and all these companies  Im all for free trade. I think its great. Im for it. But its got to be smart trade. Im not going to let them move to Mexico and then sell stuff over the border with no tax, no nothing so we lose our jobs, we lose our factories, they go over here, they make it, we let them come through. How does that help us, folks? I went to the best business school in the world. Believe me, it doesnt help us. Okay? Trust me.
And were not going to make deals like that anymore. We cant. We owe $19 trillion. We cant.
So the establishment is not ever probably  look, you know what? In the end, if this country starts humming even the establishment theyll be saying "Okay, its a good thing" because theyll be beneficiaries also.
But we do have a real establishment and theyve never seen this happen before.
A writer called up and he said recently  I told this story. I mean, one of the top journalists to my way of thinking certainly in the country and beyond. And he said, "Mr. Trump, how does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" "How does it feel? What youve done has never, ever been done before?" I said, "What have I done?" "Youve dominated the Summer of Trump." Now they call it the Autumn of Trump.
Hopefully, theyre going to call it the Spring of Trump and I want the next Autumn of Trump.
But I said to the writer, "I dont know what youre talking about. I havent done anything cause frankly if I dont win I consider this to be a total waste of time." Ill be honest with you. As much as I like being with you tonight. Because we wont be able to do anything.
He said, "No, no. Youve won even if you dont win. Youve won already." I said, "No, youre wrong. If I dont win, I have wasted my time."
So you know, the point is that the establishment cant believe it because theyve never seen it happen before.
...I was on the cover of Time Magazine four or five weeks ago and Time Magazine was going to pick the Person of the Year. Everybody  even my enemies  said "Trump is going to win." I said, "I wont win." They said, "Why?" "I wont win. Just like I should have gotten the Emmy for The Apprentice for the first three years. I was nominated. I should have." And I said, "Ill never win." I told everybody Ill never win because Im not Hollywood establishment.
And with Time Magazine, I said  Bill OReilly, whos a great guy, did an editorial at the end of his show two days ago saying nobody has done more than Trump, he should have won.
Now, Im not saying I should have  yeah, I probably should have in all fairness  but he said "Nobodys done more"  you know, taking over  what weve done has been amazing  all of us together not just me. Its all of us. Its all of us. From Dallas and Mobile and Oklahoma. All of us. Because the spirit.
...Well, Merkel got it. Now, Merkel, what did she do? Shes destroyed  I mean, shes in the process of destroying Germany with the migration.
We have to help the people with the migration. We have to create a safe zone some place in Syria. But I dont want them coming into this country. I dont want them because we dont know who they are. We dont know who they are. Them with their printing press that now do the forged passports. Okay? You heard about that. So we dont know.
The bottom line on that  its such an interesting question. Youll know in about a month or two whether or not the establishment has treated me fairly.
But the only thing I can say is this: If I win Iowa, I think its over. I said before. Because I think if I win Iowa, New Hampshire is amazing. People are amazing. You would love the people. They would love you. Youd love everybody. The whole country is in love...I call it the noisy majority. Its no longer a silent majority. Its the noisy majority.
But if we win like I think were going to win because we have such a big league, honestly, its not going to matter. They cant do anything. I dont care about the establishment. They cant do anything.
You know, the only way they can do is if Im a little bit short, if Im two votes short I have a problem because Ill have to go into that convention, Im dealing with all these blood sucker politicians and theyll make their deals and theyll have all their money guys around and theyll be in the backroom making deals.
But if I get the number of delegates, theres not a thing they can do. And Ill end up doing fine with the establishment...

...Im such a believer in education.
You know, I had an uncle who was a professor at MIT who was a brilliant guy...In fact, I just retweeted an article about him today. Youve got to read it. Okay? @RealDonaldTrump. You have to read it.
When I see somebody like Jeb  no Ill tell you one thing I respect. He didnt change his views. He knew he was getting killed on this issue and he didnt change. And I respect that to a certain extent. But its so wrong.
Common Core is a total disaster. We have people  bureaucrats in Washington  telling you how your child should be educated in Iowa and New Hampshire and all of the different places that we go to. Its ridiculous.
And I go around and Ive seen the principals. Ive seen so many students and teachers and professors and principals, and Ive seen some of the people and the love  even in Iowa at a school  Ive seen some of the love these parents give to those schools. This is real love. These are smart people. And these are people that arent working for a paycheck. These are incredible people...
Remember this: Our educational system is a mess. We spend more money per pupil as a government than any other country in the world and were in 28th place. And I mean like double what anybody else pays.
So I want to bring education back to the local areas. Youre going to have parents and youre going to have unbelievably talented people and they love their kids and they want their kids to be well-educated because its so important. And youre going to be very happy with it. Okay? Thank you. Thank you.

...You people do it. Were backing you 100%...We are backing you 100%. Youre doing a phenomenal job. There should be more people like you in this country.
You know, the whole grid is a disaster. Right? The whole country. The infrastructure of our country is falling apart.
And nobody can build like me. Its what I do. I build. I build.
Im building on  as you know  Pennsylvania Avenue a big tremendous hotel that I got from the government of the United States. Can you believe it? During the Obama administration a couple of years ago.
But we had the best plan. The GSA is terrific. Theyre very good. Actually, theyre very talented people.
Were under-budget and ahead of schedule. Thats what we do.
When you see these things where theyre building a bridge and its going to cost, you know, $1 billion and it costs $12 billion. How about when they build a hospital and it costs $3 billion?
And I look at it  Im very good  I can look at a building and tell you how much its going to cost.
I say "$250 million." "No, sir, $3 billion." $3 billion? Think somebody got rich on that one?
So were going to stop all this stuff. Were going to make our country so strong and so wonderful. And we all love it anyways. We love it.
But its so sad to see whats happening. Its so sad. And were going to change it around.

...We have such a problem. And the biggest problem I have, you know, it relates to education and the hardest thing you get is when you go around and youd see students and so many students come out to hear us and they always want to talk about the loans  they have student loans  and theyre going through nice colleges, theyre good students, they work hard, they could be really top in their class and they get out and they say, "Mr. Trump, we have no jobs. We cant get jobs."
So theyre borrowed up to the hilt and they cant get jobs.
Were going to bring our jobs back from China. Were going to bring our jobs back from all these places overseas that have stolen our jobs.
Were going to bring our jobs back from South America. Were bringing them back from Mexico. Were going to have jobs again. Believe me. Were going to be manufacturers again.
Were going to start making Apple computers in this country. What the hell good does it do to make them in China? I want to make them in this country and we have the ability to do it.
So, were going to bring our jobs back. Okay?

Wow! Thank you very much.
Hello.
Id like to begin by thanking the people of Montana, South Dakota, New Mexico, New Jersey, and California. We had some big, big days and we have some big numbers coming in. Very big numbers.
Im truly honored by your support.
Together, we accomplished what nobody thought was absolutely possible and you know what that is. Were only getting started and its going to be beautiful. Remember that.
Tonight, we close one chapter in history and we begin another. Our campaign received more primary votes than any GOP campaign in history. No matter who it is, no matter who they are, we received more votes.
This is a great feeling. Thats a great feeling.
This is not a testament to me but a testament to all of the people who believed real change, not Obama change, but real change is possible.
Youve given me the honor to lead the Republican Party to victory this fall.
Were going to do it. Were going to do it, folks. Were going to do it.
I understand the responsibility of carrying the mantle and I will never, ever let you down. Too much work, too many people, blood, sweat, and tears. Im never going to let you down.
I will make you proud of your party and our movement, and thats what it is  its a movement.
Now, recent polls have shown that Im beating Hillary Clinton and with all of her many problems and the tremendous mistakes that shes made and she has made tremendous mistakes, we expect our lead to continue to grow and grow substantially.
To everyone who voted for me throughout this campaign, I want to thank you. I want to thank you very, very much.
To those who voted for someone else in either party, I will work hard to earn your support and I will work very hard to earn that support.
To all of those Bernie Sanders voters who have been left out in the cold by a rigged system of super delegates, we welcome you with open arms.

And by the way, the terrible trade deals that Bernie was so vehemently against  and hes right on that  will be taken care of far better than anyone ever thought possible. And thats what I do.
We are going to have fantastic trade deals. Were going to start making money and bringing in jobs.
Now, I know some people say Im too much of a fighter. My preference is always peace, however. And Ive shown that. Ive shown that for a long time.
Ive built an extraordinary business on relationships and deals that benefit all parties involved  always.
My goal is always again to bring people together. But Im forced to fight for something I really care about, I will never, ever back down and our country will never, ever back down.
Ive fought for my family. Ive fought for my business. Ive fought for my employees. And now Im going to fight for you  the American people  like nobody has ever fought before.
And Im not a politician fighting. Im me. Youre going to see some real good things happen.
Just remember this: Im going to be your champion. Im going to be Americas champion.
Because, you see, this election isnt about Republican or Democrat. Its about who runs this country  the special interests or the people  and I mean the American people.
Every election year politicians promised change. Obama promised change and it didnt work out too well. And every year, they failed to deliver.
Why would politicians want to change a system thats totally rigged in order to keep them in power? Thats what theyre doing, folks.
Why would politicians want to change a system thats made them and their friends very, very wealthy?
I beat a rigged system by winning with overwhelming support  the only way you could have done it  landslides all over the country with every demographic, on track to win 37 primary/caucus victories in a field that began with 17 very talented people.

After years of disappointment, theres one thing we all have learned  we cant fix the rigged system by relying on very  and I mean this so, so strongly  on the very people who rigged it. And they rigged it and do not ever think anything differently.
We cant solve our problems by counting on the politicians who created our problems.
The Clintons have turned the politics of personal enrichment into an art form for themselves.
Theyve made hundreds of millions of dollars selling access, selling favors, selling government contracts, and I mean hundreds of millions of dollars.
Secretary Clinton even did all of the work on a totally illegal private server. Something that how shes getting away with this folks nobody understands. Designed to keep her corrupt dealings out of the public record, putting the security of the entire country at risk, and a president in a corrupt system is totally protecting her. Not right.
I am going to give a major speech on probably Monday of next week, and were going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the Clintons. I think youre going to find it very informative and very, very interesting.
I wonder if the press would want to attend. Who knows?
Hillary Clinton turned the State Department into a private hedge fund. The Russians, the Saudis, the Chinese all gave money to Bill and Hillary and got favorable treatment in return.
Its a sad day in America when foreign governments with deep pockets have more influence in our own country than our great citizens.
I didnt need to do this. Its not easy. Believe me. I didnt need to do it. But I felt I had to give back to our wonderful country, which has been so good to me and to my family.

Ive traveled to many of our states and seen the suffering in peoples lives.
Ive visited communities in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Connecticut, Indiana, and Ohio whose manufacturing jobs  they literally these jobs have virtually disappeared. An embarrassment to our country and its horrible.
Ive embraced the victims of illegal immigration  moms and dads who have had to bury their own children because of people that shouldnt have been in the country. Remember it, folks. Remember it.
Ive visited the crumbling cities and the struggling schools.
Ive seen our dilapidated airports, highways, bridges, and Ive compared them to other countries where we see facilities so far superior to ours. Its really not to be believed. Hard to imagine whats happened to our country.
America is getting taken apart piece by piece, auctioned off, and just rapidly auctioned off to the highest bidder.
Were broke. Were broke. We owe $19 trillion. Going quickly to $21 trillion.
Our infrastructure is a disaster. Our schools are failing. Crime is rising. People are scared.
The last thing we need is Hillary Clinton in the White House or an extension of the Obama disaster.
What a crowd. What a crowd. Thank you all very much. We love our country. We love our country.
But we can turn this all around. Were going to do it by putting America first.
That commitment is the foundation for change thats been missing and its been missing for a long time.

Its important to understand what America First means.
It means on foreign policy, we will never enter into any conflict unless it makes us safer as a nation. It has to make us safer as a nation.
This is the opposite of Hillarys foreign policy, which invaded Libya, destabilized Iraq, unleashed ISIS and threw Syria into chaos and created the mass migration, which is wrecking havoc all over the world and while putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons and making them a dominant power in the Middle East. And they are dominant and we have made them that way, folks, we have made them that way.
Better hope Im president.
On trade, America First means the American worker will have his or her job protected from unfair foreign competition  whats happening here is absolutely a disgrace.
No PPP [sic]. Youre right about that. So and you mean no PP.
We are going  and remember this  we are only going to have great trade deals. Okay? We are only going to have that.
Were not going to approve as somebody just said the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which is a disaster  a disaster  for our country. Almost as bad as NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton, which has just stripped our country of our factories and our manufacturing and moved them to other places and in particular Mexico.
If its not a great deal for our country, we will not sign it. Its got to be great for our country, for our community, for everybody in here because believe me we are all suffering and were suffering big league and its getting worse.
On energy policy, America First means opening up Americas great potential to bring wealth and prosperity to our own workers, including our wonderful and hardworking miners who have been absolutely totally mistreated by this administration.
On economic policy, America First means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the United States, substantially lowering taxes for middle class Americans and businesses. Likewise, regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level, we will make it very, very good for our companies, for our small businesses, and for people that want to survive and do well in our country.
On immigration policy, America First means protecting the jobs, wages, and security of American workers. Whether first or tenth generation, no matter who you are, were going to protect your job because let me tell you, our jobs are being stripped from our country like were babies.

The beauty of America First is that it brings us all together. Every American worker of every background is entitled to the same benefits, protections and rights and privileges. Its got to be that way.
Now, the people in charge say things cant change. Im here today to tell you that we have to change. We have no choice. We have to change.
Were going to put America back to work. Were going to make our own products. Were going to put America back to work.
Were going to rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame and so sad, going to take care of our African-American people that have been mistreated for so long.
Were going to make you and your families safe, secure, and prosperous. Prosperous again.
Together, we will put the American people first again. First again.
We will make our communities wealthy. We will make our cities safe again. We will make our country strong again.
Ladies and gentlemen, we will make America great again! Remember. Thank you!
Thank you! Thank you very much everybody!

Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. This has been a great period of time. Its been really amazing.
Weve gotten the nomination. Were going to have an incredible period in Cleveland. We look forward to it.
Weve started working already on the convention.
And LeBron, good luck in the series because were going to have the series, which of course the longer it goes the less time we have but thats okay. And its going to be very interesting to see what happens.
But as you know, theyre playing the basketball championships partially in that arena so I think it will be very exciting. Itll add to the excitement in Cleveland and thats good. Thats what we want because its going to be an exciting period of time.
We have  weve done some awfully good work. I was just informed...that weve got more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican primaries and we still have I guess six or seven locations to go, states to go.
And in the history, think of it, in the history of this great party, weve gotten substantially more votes than anybody else by millions  by many millions more  than anybody whos ever run.
So thats a great. You know, when you think Dwight Eisenhower and Ronald Reagan and everybody, we have the most votes by far. So thats something to me thats very exciting.
And overall, its just been a very exciting process. I think were going to do very well.
We have no idea whats going to happen on the Democrats side but theyre certainly having difficulty. I dont like to see people having difficulty. But if anybody has to have it, let it be them.
And I think its going to be very interesting.
Im very proud to say that weve gotten the most votes and also if you look at the overall primary the amount of votes cast, thats also a record. So weve broken a lot of records in terms of the voters.
Our polling has come out and the polls are doing very well as you know. Were pretty much even and in some cases ahead of Hillary. And I think were going to have a very, very successful number of months. And I think it will all culminate in November and were going to make America great. Okay?
So thats the way it is...

Im glad you asked the question because I have to tell you I have raised a tremendous amount of money for the vets  almost $6 million. And more money is going to come in I believe over the next little while too.
But Ive raised almost $6 million. All of the money has been paid out and Im going to give it to you in just a second.
In fact, I brought a list just in case that question was asked.
But the money has been paid out.
I have been thanked by so many veterans groups throughout the United States.
One gentleman called me up recently crying that out of a blue he got a check for $100,000. I have been thanked by so many groups  great veterans groups.
And by the way, outside you have a few people picketing. Theyre sent there by Hillary Clinton and theyre picketing that the money wasnt sent. The money has all been sent.
I wanted to keep it private. If we could, I wanted to keep it private because I dont think its anybodys business if I want to send money to the vets.
But I have to say this. I raised close to $6 million. Itll probably be over that amount when its all said and done. But as of this moment, its $5.6 million.
When this started, it started with a speech in Iowa when I said lets raise some money for the vets and it went up from $1 million to $2 million to $3 million. And it now ends up to be almost $6 million and again I think we can even do better than that.

But I will say that the press should be ashamed of themselves.
And behalf of the vets, the press should be ashamed of themselves. They are calling me. They are furious because I sent people checks of a lot of money.
Were going to give you the names right now, which is what you want.
And instead of being like "Thank you very much, Mr. Trump" or "Trump did a good job", everyone said, "Who got it? Who got it? Who got it?" And you make me look very bad.
I have never received such bad publicity for doing such a good job.
So I will give the names because thats what you want. Right?
Okay. Are you ready?
I brought them here. It takes  because you have to vet each company. You know, much of this money was paid out fairly early.
But you have to vet all of these different groups because these are many different groups. You have to go through a process. When you send checks for hundreds of thousands of dollars to people and to companies and to groups that youve never heard of  charitable organizations. You have to vet it. You send people out. You do a lot of work.
Now, most of the money went out quite a while ago. Some of it went out more recently. But all of this has gone out and Ill give you the names.
Are you ready? Do you have your pad?
And again, I really think the press  look, the media, you know my opinion of the media. Its very low. I think the media is frankly made up of people that, in many cases, not in all cases, are not good people. But I think this is an example.
And I just on behalf of all of the folks that have worked hard on this and all of the people that have made contributions, including myself; I gave $1 million, but I just want to tell you that there are so many people that are so thankful for what we did.
One other thing thats important to know. Zero dollars have been taken out for administration.
You know, when you go to a lot of these different groups, in this case, zero dollars have been taken out for administration. So a lot of these companies that make a lot of money doing the administration stuff. So no money  it costs zero dollars to accumulate all of this money. Okay?
So you have 22 Kill and thats $200,000.
And you can call these people. That was another thing. A lot of the money when it was sent out, different people would call. I could tell you, Im not going to mention anybody specifically, but there were a couple of people that were really disgusting. Theyd call and these vet groups they dont get a lot of calls from the press. And maybe some of them would keep quiet or they didnt know or they didnt want to talk to the press or they didnt feel comfortable.
So if they didnt say they got the money, which they all did, 100% got the money. All certified checks. If anyone wants to see the certified checks.
But rather than say why dont you  could I see a certified check? They said "Well, they didnt say they got the money." They all got the money.
But theyre not people that always talk to the press. Many of them do talk to the press. Many of them have  I guess you found $2 million or $2.5 million where they talked.
Well, the number is $5.6 million and its going to possibly go above that because I believe some other people are coming in.
Ready?
22Kill got $200,000.
Now, these are checks that have been delivered, that have been cashed, that are now being used to help the vets.
Achilles International  great organization  $200,000. Much of this money was paid a long time ago.
American Hero Adventures  $100,000.
Americans for Equal Living  $100,000.
Americas Vetdogs  The Veterans K-9 Corps Inc.  $75,000.
AMVETS  $75,000.

Just so you understand. When I didnt do the Fox debate...because I didnt think they treated me right but actually theyve been extremely fair over the last three or four months, I have to say that about Fox. But when I didnt do that one event, the debate, I gave a speech. I didnt have to do this with the money for the vets but I decided to because I thought it would be a good idea.
And I had some very generous people  Carl Icahn gave $500,000. Phil Ruffin gave $1 million...Ike Perlmutter gave $1 million. We raised a lot of money. And I didnt have to do that. It would have been easier just to give the speech.
And the problem with the press what they do is they convince people like me not to do it, not to give money to different things because its a lot easier actually that way.

And I believe were going to have some more coming in. Some friends of mine, some more coming in. And that adds up to $5,600,000 total and were going to have some more coming in.
Now, every one of those checks have been passed other than the one check which is being held subject to theyre getting a final approval from the government. But every one of those has been passed.
This is my check for $1 million.
We have many letters from the different groups thanking us very much for the money and they didnt ask  I didnt ask people to be here today. I could have asked every one of the group unlike Hillary who asks people to stand outside and say "Donald Trump didnt give the money."
Nobody gave this kind of money.
So I gave $5,600,000. More is coming in. Probably tops the $6 million number.
I never thought we were going to raise $1 million when we started. And we end up doing almost $6 million.
I have to tell you the press is so dishonest and so unfair.
A lot of the people behind me and some of the people over here helped in vetting the various requests for money. And I just want to thank all of those people.

I wasnt too involved in picking the organizations other than to the Marine Law Enforcement. They are fabulous people. They honored me last year at the Waldorf Astoria. I knew them.
I was going to give it to three companies or three groups and we couldnt vet them quickly. And so I gave it to the Marine.
And if you look at number, the Marine Corps Law Enforcement Foundation is a fabulous group and I didnt have to go through a big vetting process with them. Because I was going to split the $1 million check up amongst...and in the end I just didnt want to go through the process of having to vet all those different groups.

Because I wanted to make this out of the goodness of my heart. I didnt want to do this where the press is all involved and all of a sudden everybody is going "Where did it go? Who did it go to?" Then we said who it went to, then we said how much was it.
...Look, when this started...I said if we could raise $1 million that would be good. And we ended up raising almost $6 million. And Im going to have more coming in over a period of time.

Im totally accountable but I didnt want to have credit for it.
Actually though what I got was worse than credit because they were questioning me. And this is money. And by the way, most of that money went out very early just so you understand. But a lot of these groups  getting vetted by, you know, when you pay the money out, they need government documentation. They need a lot of different things.

Plus, we want to find out whos in the good group.
I had people  teams of people  reviewing statistics, reviewing numbers and also talking to people in the military to find out whether or not the group was deserving of the money.
We have given to groups that are unbelievable groups. And honestly, I wish you could hear the phone calls and see the letters. They are so happy. And Im happy to do it. I didnt want the credit for it but it was very unfair that the press treated us so badly.

Well, generally speaking, thats 100% true.

I like scrutiny. But you know what? When I raise money  excuse me, excuse me, Ive watched you on television. Youre a real beauty. When I raise money for the veterans and its a massive amount of money  find out how much Hillary Clinton has given to the veterans  nothing.
And then I see a few guys standing out there. They dont even know what theyre there for. They have no idea. Theyre there because Hillary Clintons campaign sent them.
And actually I think it was you or one of you that found out that they actually were with Hillary Clintons campaign, which was interesting but I wasnt surprised.
I dont want the credit for it but I shouldnt be lambasted.
And remember this: So out of the almost $6 million that was raised not one penny did I take for administration cost. Thats unheard of.

How else am I going to raise the money? How else am I going to raise the money?

I would have given  just so you understand. Until I was criticized  so Im the only one in the world that could raise almost $6 million for the veterans, have uniform applause by the veterans groups, and end up being criticized by the press.
Yes, I made a speech and during the speech I said, "Lets raise a little money for the vets." It turned out to be a lot of money, not a little money. I thought if we could get to $1 million, it would be great, which it would have been.

Thats right. I do raise millions.

No, I dont think so.

No, I raised almost $6 million. Some of it didnt come through. But more money is coming through than didnt come through. The number probably is going to be  when we finish it probably going to be over the $6 million.

I dont mind it coming from the opposition...What I do mind is when I raise all of these millions and when we started out nobody ever thought it was going to be over $5 million or close to $6 [million].

So, look, heres the story. Heres the story. I think and Ive been dealing with the press a long time. I think the political press is among the most dishonest people Ive ever met, I have to tell you that. Okay?
...But I think the political press...I think the political press  I see the stories and I see the way theyre attached.
For instance, I went down this weekend to do Rolling Thunder. I was invited. I didnt have anything to do with it. We had a tremendous gathering of people  thousands  I dont know how many thousands  but many thousands of people. And I joked "Oh, I thought we were going to go from the Jefferson Memorial to the  " I was joking. They said "Donald Trump was disappointed". Everybody knew I was being sarcastic and joking. They said some of them. Said Donald Trump was very disappointed that it didnt go from Jefferson to Lincoln. You know, millions of people.
I was joking. I said "Oh, Im used to watching it. We had  " I was joking. So they put it down as serious. They know I was joking.
Ill give you another example. We had a certain  same event  it was roped off where you could only get so many people there and there were a lot of people. I dont know  10,000, 15,000, maybe 25,000. I dont know there was a lot of people. Plus there were people breaking the seams all the way along.
Eugene Washington, a man I like actually, wrote an article said there were 5,000 people there. There were many times that. And you werent allowed to have any more people.
And all of these people were with their motorcycles in parking lots all the way. They were waving to me as Im going.

But wait a minute. The point is law enforcement  these people didnt allow you to have any more people.
...I had a tremendous crowd but it was the biggest crowd you could have had. It was all cordoned off. You werent allowed to have any more. You werent allowed to have any more people than that.
So instead of saying Trump made a speech in front of a packed crowd, they said "Trump was disappointed" because I didnt have millions of people going from Jefferson to Washington. I mean, give me a break.
...Honestly, its dishonest reporting.

Well, the veterans believe me. Let me tell you, the veterans why they believe. And I have group that I gave...[invites a veteran to speak]
...I could have asked all these groups  he just showed up. I just saw him. But I could have asked all these groups to come here and they could have made  I didnt want to do that.
Im not looking for credit. But what I dont want is when I raise millions of dollars have people say like this sleazy guy over here from ABC  hes a sleaze in my book. Youre a sleaze because you know the facts and you know the facts well.
Veteran:
Thank you, Mr. Trump.
First of all for the record, Im a state representative from New Hampshire, 10 years on the veterans affairs committee, 22 years in the Marine Corps, retired First Sergeant.
What I want to clarify here first of all, I would never ever in a million years put my name on a candidate that did not from his heart look me in the eye and tell me hes concerned about veterans. Thats Donald Trump. I met him over a year ago.
Ive been involved in many fundraisers. There are many scammers out there. He did the right thing by vetting these groups there.
If you look at some of the groups, theyre given 20 cents, 40 cents on the dollar and theyre spending the rest for you know their nice lavish trips. He gave 100%.
The liberal media is the only ones that have been calling the foundation. All right? Im a former chairman. Ive been dealing with this stuff for years as a veterans activist.
Stop using veterans as a political pawns. Youve got a guy outside...go do a Google search on his Facebook. Hes out there. His pictures with Clinton.
They are using veterans as political pawns. It must stop.
Donald Trump is doing this with a heart. Youre all focused on the way hes raising money and youre not looking at the 22 veterans that are killing each other everyday. Youre not concerned about the thousands of veterans that are on waitlists.
Look at his plans on his Trump website. He talks about medical cards. He talks about fixing the VA. He talks about competition.
I think the liberal media and Ive been dealing with you a long time. You need to get your head out of your butt. Focus on the real issues.
Thank you.

What I did  I didnt ask Al. Ive gotten to know Al a little bit primarily through New Hampshire where we had great victories. But he showed up this morning because he was upset.
And many of the other groups were upset. They received $100,000 in the mail. They didnt even know what it was for. It was from me. Other groups received $200,000, $250,000. They didnt know what it was for.
And again, upstairs I have received phones calls with people crying. I have received letters  heartfelt letters.
...The bad part about the dishonesty of the media is that people like me will be inclined not to do it anymore. Because why should you raise $5.6 million and I think Ill go over $6 million pretty easily. Nobody said that we started this out as a small little project where it was less than $1 million because it kept just mushrooming and building and building. But nobody talks about that.
So we raised $5.6 million. We have so many happy groups. So many happy veterans.
And then I see these Hillary Clinton people outside. Now, of course, they dont know the extent. They probably figured based on reading the press that Trump didnt make, you know, didnt raise this kind of money.
But we raised a lot and Ill be raising more and well be sending it to other people as we get along.

Its a complicated process.

No, it doesnt...You know, the government sort of approves different groups for a lot of reasons. So it really does  and more than anything else, its also speaking to other veterans. We have a circle of veterans. I dont want to send a $250,000 check to a group that doesnt do good work. So its called vetting. We vet the vets. But its called vetting.

I think its bothersome because I love the vets and Ive worked hard for the vets. And as you can see, Ive given a lot of money and raised a lot of money for the vets.
And I think when the press portrays it differently, the press is being very dishonest. So I dont like that. I dont like dishonesty.

Jeff Sessions is a fantastic man. Jeff Sessions is one of the most highly respected people in the United States Senate.
Jeff Sessions is a person that I believe that Ted Cruz has the most respect for and I think Ted thought that he would get an endorsement.
You know, Jeff Sessions has never endorsed a presidential candidate before as many years as hes been in the Senate.
So you know, Jeff Sessions is certainly somebody that I would consider. Absolutely. Hes a fantastic person.

I think it was a very tough call. It was amazing because there were moments with the gorilla the way he held that child that almost like a mother holding a baby  looks so beautiful and calm. And there were moments where it looked pretty dangerous. I dont think they had a choice. I mean, probably they didnt have a choice.
You have a child, a young child, at stake. You know, its too bad there wasnt another way.
I thought it was so beautiful to watch that powerful almost 500 pound gorilla and the way he dealt with that little boy. But it just takes one second. Its one second  its not like it takes place over  well, hes going to do it 30 seconds from now. It just takes one little flick of his finger. And I will tell you they probably had no choice.
...

Im entirely in favor of fixing the VA health care. VA is one of the great catastrophes in this country whats going on.
You look at whats happening in Phoenix and different places throughout the country where theyre catching people stealing and they dont even fire them, where people are waiting five days, six days, seven days on line. Theyre dying while they wait on line.
And I am in favor of if they cant get to a doctor within a reasonable period of time, theyre going to see a doctor and the countrys going to pay for it. Theyre going to go to a private doctor or a public hospital and a public doctor but some place that can take them immediately. Were losing thousands of people waiting on line.
And the Veterans Administration is run by Obama just as incompetently as hes running our country.
You look at the TSA, you look at whats going on at the airports and you look at that. Okay? Just take a look at that. Thats like the Veterans Administration.
Nothing in our country works anymore. Its a mess.
And maybe thats why Im doing so well in the polls.

No, it doesnt have to be privatization. No, it doesnt have to be privatization. What it has to be is when somebodys on line and they say its going to be a seven day wait, that person is going to walk over to across the street to a private doctor, be taken care of. Were going to pay the bill.
And by the way, thats going to be a lot less expensive. And well check it out and be careful. But thats going to be a lot less expensive than whats going on.
These people are living in hell.
And Hillary Clinton said the Veterans Administration is working just fine. And the head of it, [Bob] McDonald said last week that waiting in line is not bad  look at Disney World. Okay? These are the kind of people we have running things. Its ridiculous.

...Thats their choice. You have a party called the Democrats and theyre going to have to make that choice. I think its probably going to be her because its rigged.
And I think if you people will say Im the one that came up with the term "rigged". I used it for myself, except that I won by such big margins that the whole system is rigged on both sides. With the Republicans its less obvious. With Democrats with the whole super delegate thing, its ridiculous.
So I think that theyre going to have to make that determination.
If youre asking me who I prefer running against?

I think what she did was very bad and I think a lot of people have done a lot less than her and their lives have been destroyed.

The judge has been very unfair. Has not done a good job. Hes been a very bad judge. Has been very unfair. And I will win the Trump University case. I already am as far as Im concerned. But I will win the Trump University case.
Because I dont care...
I have a judge whos very, very unfair.
Well, youll see it in court documents. But I have a judge whos very, very unfair. He knows hes unfair. And Ill win the Trump University case. I can settle that case. I could have settled it. I just choose not to.
In fact, when I ran this, they said why didnt you settle up that case? I dont want to settle the case.
Because you know what? Because Im a man of principle. And most of the people that took those courses have letters saying they thought it was great essentially. It was good. It was great.
And you know what? When theyre on the stand and you say "How come you signed the letter saying that Trump University was so good? How come you signed the letter?"
The woman that was the original plaintiff in the case  they went to the court and the judge allowed her to get out of the case. The case should have been dropped. The whole case should have been dropped.
They wanted her dismissed from the case. You know why? Because she was deposed, she was such a bad witness that wed win the case easily. She signed a letter and shes on film. Shes on tape like these cameras saying unbelievably good things about Trump University. So they didnt want her anymore because shes a disaster for them.
So they went to the judge and they said "Your honor, wed like to have her not be a participant, not be a plaintiff in the case." And he said, "Oh, thats okay." Shes the one that started the case.
Now, they dont even want her to testify. They dont want her to testify because shes a disaster. She has all sorts of beautiful statements about it. And importantly, shes on tape saying how great it is. They dont want her. I wouldnt want her either.
Now, I could have settled that case. I could settle that case. I can settle that case. I dont want to. Ill go through the process.

Because were down the line. Because were down the line and the fact that you cant win as independent. For the most part, you cant even get on Texas and various other states now. Its too late. But Texas is out.
...Heres what happens. What happens is you will not have  and very importantly  you will not have Supreme Court justices. Youre going to lose. You could have as many as four or five. Thats over.
Now, [Bill] Kristols the one thats  but hes the last one. Dont forget, he said "Trump will never run." The guys not a smart person. He said, "Donald Trump would never run." Remember?
You remember? I actually blame you. Why do you put this guy on television? I see him on the different shows. Hes got no credibility. Said I wont run. If I run, I wont do well. If I do well, this and that. He looks like such a fool.
I saw him on one show. Hes practically crying because he cant justify.
Now he comes out with a tweet over the weekend  over Memorial Day weekend  it sounds like hes going to put somebody up. Even I thought it. I thought, "Oh, theyre going to find indie."
Now he comes out with something saying he was almost  almost  kidding. Okay?
Let me tell you, these people are losers. Hes trying to make you  hes trying to drive you guys a little bit nuts.
If they do an indie, assuming its decent, which I dont think anybody with a reputation would do it because theyd look like fools. But what youre going to do is you lose the election for the Republicans and therefore you lose the Supreme Court, therefore you will have a group of people put on the Supreme Court where this country will never ever recover. It will never, ever be the same.

No, I didnt say that. I said Bill Kristol is a loser and Ill tell you why...He has called every single move. Take a look  on me, hes going to lose this state  I won in a landslide...I didnt say everybody. Many. I didnt say everybody.
Wait, wait, wait. Bill Kristol is a loser. His magazine is failing, as you know. Its going to be down  I dont think it even survives. Hes getting some free publicity.
But Bill Kristol  Ive been watching this for two years. "Trump isnt going to run." Then I go into a race, we go into New Hampshire. "Oh, hes not going to win New Hampshire." I win in a landslide. Every place I went I was not going to win. But I win in a landslide. Do you think maybe he doesnt like me?

Its wrong. Its wrong. I didnt get 30%.

My last score was 78%. I didnt get 30%.

I dont know. No, no, no.
Heres the way I look at it.
When I have somebody thats not on my side, when you know  by the way, Ive gotten great applause from the press in terms of as an achievement because the Republican Party is really well unified.
We have come up. People that you would have never thought possible are now saying, "I support Trump." So remember that. We dont talk about that too much.
But actually last week, the big story was how fast the Republican Party is healing because it is a healing process. It was a rough  that was a rough campaign...
I can this. The real is how fast were getting together.
Now, if I have a Republican whos not on my side, Im not going to be  why should I be particularly nice to that person? Im not going to go after it like I would Hillary or Crazy Bernie. But you know what? Why should I be nice to that person if I have a person thats not going to support me? I have no obligation.
Politically, I may be right. I may be wrong. But thats who I am. Im a very honest person...
If somebody is going to say a little bit negative or a lot negative about me and if they happen to be Republican, I may choose to hit them back. Not always. But I may choose to hit them back.

Im not a fan of Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney lost an election he should have won.
And if you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal about Mitt Romney, he looks like a fool.
Look, Im not a fan of Mitt Romney. Just so you understand. I raised a lot of money for Mitt Romney. I made robocalls for Mitt Romney. I made speeches for him. He let us down.
If you read the front page of the Wall Street Journal this weekend, Mitt Romney looks like a fool.
Now, what would I say good about Mitt Romney?

She was not nice and I was fine, just a little bit of a jab. But she wasnt nice. And you think Im going to change? Im not changing, including with her.

Bob Dole is a fan of mine. Bob Dole endorsed me. So dont tell me about Bob Dole.

Well, look, Gary Johnson, he got 1% of the vote last time. I watched that whole situation. It was pretty disgraceful. I think its a total fringe deal. I think hes a fringe candidate if you want to know the truth. I look at him and I watch him and I watch his motions and I watch what he says. I think that he is a fringe candidate...when you do a little research on that I think its not going to be a factor. Okay?

No, not all of you. Just many of you.

Yeah, it is. Yeah, it is. Let me tell you something. Im a person  yeah, its going to be like this...If the press writes false stories like they did with this  half of you were amazed that I raised all of this money. If the press writes false stories like they did where I wanted to keep a low profile. I didnt want the credit for raising all this money for the vets. I wasnt looking for the credit.
And by the way, more money is coming in. I wasnt looking for the credit.
But I had no choice but to do this because the press was saying I didnt raise any money for them.
Not only did I raise it, much of it was given a long time ago. And there is a vetting process and I think you understand that.
But when I raise almost $6 million and probably in the end will raise more than six because more is going to come in and is coming in. But when I raise $5.6 million as of today, more is coming in. And this is going to phenomenal groups.
And I have many of these people vetting the people getting the money and working hard. And then we have to read probably libelous stories or certainly close in the newspapers and the people know the stories are false, Im going to continue to attack the press.
Look, I find the press to be extremely dishonest. I find the political press to be unbelievably dishonest. I will say that.
Okay, thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Well, thank you very much everyone.
I want to start by, as always, thanking my family. My wife, Melania. My kids  theyre not kids anymore but theyre kids as far as Im concerned. Theyll always be my kids. And I want to thank my great parents who are looking down right now and my brother looking down on us. I want to thank my entire family, including Maryanne, Elizabeth, Robert.
And its been some unbelievable day and evening and year. I never have been through anything like this but its a beautiful thing to watch and a beautiful thing to behold, and were going to make America great again. Were going to make America great again.
So important  so important that the people of Indiana have been incredible.
I started as you know not very long ago  about six weeks ago  and I was told that I had a 20 point deficit.
And I went there and I worked very hard and I campaigned and I made lots of speeches and met lots of incredible people  incredible people. You dont get better, and the crowds got bigger and bigger. And toward the end, it was like I didnt want to leave. I almost said, "Maybe Ill just never leave" and it resonated somehow and we have a tremendous victory tonight.
It was a tremendous victory.
And I have to thank Bobby Knight. Boy, Bobby Knight was incredible. He was incredible.
I always that people like that  there arent many  but its called tough, smart, and they know how to win. And thats what our country needs. We have to win again. We have to know how to win.
And we havent won. Weve been losing all the time. We lose with our military. We cant beat ISIS. We lose with trade. We lose with borders. We lose everything.
Were not going to lose. Were going to start winning again and were going to win big league. Believe me.
So when I got back tonight and I started watching all of the different networks, I could immediately that we were doing very well, and it really looks like a massive victory and it looks like we win all 57 delegates.

And I must say in staying in various places in Indiana, I turned on the television and all I saw was negative ads, negative one after another after another.
And I called my people and I said, "How can we win? Its just constantly." It was the same as in Florida. You know, thereve been 60,000 negative ads.
I got it right from you folks, okay? 60,000. In fact, two weeks ago it was 55,000. Now its 60,000 negative ads  most of which are absolutely false and disgusting. And I said how can anybody endure this?
I had one evening two nights ago where literally they had five ads on in between segments of a show that I was watching. And I said thats just incredible.
And the people are so smart. They dont buy it. They get it.
And its tremendous, tremendous amounts of money were spent  millions and millions of dollars. And they were comparing it. They think it was probably $8 million was spent against me and we spent $900,000. So, I mean, to me thats the way its supposed to be. Thats something that makes me feel really, really very good.
And now were going to Nebraska where I have  I just hear were doing really wonderfully. I look forward to that very much.
And West Virginia. And were going to get those miners back to work. Ill tell you what. Were going to get those miners back to work.
Were not going to be Hillary Clinton, and I watched her three or four weeks ago where she was talking about the miners as if they were just numbers and she was talking about she wants the mines closed and she will never let them work again.
Let me tell you, the miners in West Virginia and Pennsylvania which was so great to me last week and Ohio and all over, theyre going to start to work again. Believe me. Youre going to be proud again to be miners.
So well be going there. I must say this tremendous run that weve had started with New York when we had almost 62%. And dont forget, thats with three people. So 62% with two people is a massive landslide. But 63% almost  just a little over 62%  when you have that kind of a number with three people, its actually unheard of.
And all throughout, it was 17 people, then 15, then 12, you know, its tremendous, and we were getting very high numbers. And some of the numbers in my opinion that I got in the early stages were in a state with 32% but there were 14 people. I think that might actually be more and better than getting 62% in New York. But we never got the credit for that.
But now we dont need the credit because were going after Hillary Clinton. She will not be a great president. She will not be a good president. She will be a poor president.
She doesnt understand trade. Her husband signed perhaps in the history of the world the single worst trade deal ever done. Its called NAFTA.
And I was witnessed to the carnage over the last six weeks especially. Now Ive known Syracuse and Ive known Poughkeepsie and Ive known all of the different places that I visited in New York and then Pennsylvania and then Maryland, which treated me so great the people are incredible.

And all of the different state  Connecticut. And Ive witnessed what its done really firsthand. And it has been indeed carnage.
And were going to change it around.
Were not going to let Carrier and all of these companies just think they can move  go to another country, make their products, sell it back to us, and we get only one thing: We get unemployment. Not going to happen anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.
Were going to bring back our jobs and were going to keep our jobs. Were not going to let companies leave.
Now, if they want to go to a different state, good luck, compete.
But when they start going to different countries and in many cases countries that devalue their currency and make it impossible for our companies to compete, thats not going to happen. Not going to happen.
And if they want to do it anyway, there will be consequences, and there will be very, very serious consequences.
I have to tell you that Ive competed all my life. Competitive person. All my life Ive been in competitions. Different competitions whether its sports or business or now for 10 months politics.
And I have to tell you that I have met some of the most incredible competitors that I have ever competed against right here on the Republican Party.
You know, we started off with that 17 number. And just so you understand  Ted Cruz  I dont know if he likes me or if he doesnt like me. But he is one hell of a competitor. He is a tough, smart guy.
And he has got an amazing future. Hes got an amazing future. So I want to congratulate Ted.
And I know how tough it is. Its tough. Its tough.
Ive had some moments where its not looking so good, and its not a great feeling. And so I understand how Ted feels and Heidi and their whole beautiful family.
And I just want to say that one tough competitor and I can say that for the others. I mean, Chris Christie who endorsed me. Incredible guy. Dr. Ben Carson who was right up there, one of the first. He just called me and said, "Its a movement youve got going. Weve got to do something because Ill tell you what, its an incredible movement." And Dr. Ben Carson endorsed me. And I want to tell you that is an incredible man and we want to keep Ben totally involved because were going to win. Were going to win in November.
And were going to win big and its going to be America first.
You know, I made a speech the other day and I talked about how were the policemen for the world, how we protect other countries and they dont respect us and they dont take care of us and they dont treat us right in many cases.
And thats not going to happen.
Now, were going to keep things going and were going to keep things going very nicely but we owe  soon  $21 trillion. Its $19 trillion now but with a budget that was recently done, soon it will be $21 trillion.
And were just not in a position that were in 30 years ago, 40 years ago, 50 years ago when a lot of these things took place and began taking place.

So, were going to have unbelievably good relationships with other countries.
But likewise they have to treat us fairly and they have to understand that what weve been doing over the years has been so wrong and so unfair to the United States, to its people, and to its taxpayers.
So that will change. And I will tell you, theyre going to end up liking us better than they do right. Theyre going to respect us.
In this building right upstairs, I have the largest bank in the world from China. The relationship is fantastic.
We have great relationships with many foreign countries. But they have to respect us and they have to understand where were coming from.
And you know, it is a two-way street. And the two-way street means that were going down one side and theyre coming up the other. And were going to meet and we are going to have something thats going to be really fabulous.
Now, if that cant happen. If for some reason they want this system to continue the way its going now, which is not fair and not good, where were spending trillions and trillions of dollars probably $4 trillion in the Middle East.
And we have to build our infrastructure, our roads. We have to rebuild our bridges, our airports, our hospitals in this country.
Weve become close to a third world country. You look at some of our airports; its third world. And then you go to other countries and you see places like youve never seen.
So I have to say that we are going to turn it around.
Were going to build up our military bigger, better, stronger than ever before. Its the cheapest thing we can do. And were going to have to take out ISIS and were going to have to take them out fast. We cant allow that cancer to continue. We cannot allow it to continue.
And you know, one group thats been so incredible to me are the vets  the veterans. And theyve been treated so badly. So badly. And were going to get that straightened out.
Now, one of the things that just happened, which to me is very exciting and its happened now with two or three. But the Rasmussen poll came out yesterday and in that poll, Im now leading Hillary Clinton. A lot of good things...
And thats going to continue because theyre not going to be able to do it, folks.
Theyre not going to be able to make great trade deals. We have such bad deals.
Theyre not going to be able to do what we do with the military.
Theyre not going to be able to do what were going to do on the border, including the wall.
Were going to have unbelievably great relationships with the Hispanics. The Hispanics have been so incredible to me. They want jobs. Everybody want jobs. The African-Americans want jobs. You look at whats going on. They want jobs.
And were going to bring back our jobs. Were going to save our jobs and people are going to have great jobs again.
And this country, which is very, very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. And were going to love each other. Were going to cherish each other. Were going to take care of each other. And were going to have great economic development.
And were not going to let other countries take it away from us because thats whats been happening for far too many years and were not going to do it anymore. Were not going to do it anymore.
I want to thank and congratulate the Republican National Committee and Reince Priebus, who I just spoke to. Hes doing a tremendous job. Its not an easy job when he had 17 egos and now I guess hes down to one.

I dont know. Is there a second? I mean, is there a second? I dont know.
But I have ask you folks to explain the status of that.
But hes done an amazing job and I think were going to see something really, really fantastic.
I also want to thank my staff, Paul, Cory, Pope. I mean, these people. What weve been doing has been incredible.
The work has been unreal.
And Jared [Kushner], married to my daughter Ivanka. I mean, honestly, you know Jared is a very successful real estate person but I actually think he likes politics more than he likes real estate. Im excited. And hes very good at politics.
So again folks this has been an amazing evening. I didnt expect this. I didnt expect it.
And what Ted did is really a very brave thing to do and a great thing to do because we want to bring unity to the Republican Party. We have to bring unity. Its so much easier if we have it.
And many, many people are calling that you wouldnt even believe  the media, the press, they wouldnt believe. People who have said the worst things about me  Ive never had things said about me like this.
You know, with my businesses, Ive always been very respected. People didnt talk to me this way. But in politics, its easy.
The worst things and theyre calling now and theyre calling us all and theyre saying, "Wed love to get on the train"  the "Trump Train" they call it  "But wed love to get on the team."
And I actually spoke to one today who was vicious. I mean, this guy was unbelievable. And I said, "Id love having you and I think its terrific. But after what you said about me how can you possibly join our team?" And he said, "Mr. Trump, dont even think about it. Dont worry about it. Therell be no problem." In other words, hes a politician; theres no problem. I would have had a hard time.
But we have a lot of people coming  lots of congressmen. I have to thank Jeff Sessions  Sen. Jeff Sessions  one of the most respected men or people in Congress.
And so many others. I mean, Sarah Palin has been from day one incredible.
Jerry Falwell, Jr. Liberty University, I mean he is something. He is really a special person. Theyve done an incredible job and everybody goes through Liberty. We all go through Liberty and somehow he liked what I was saying and perhaps he liked the way I said it. But hes a special guy and he really has helped. And so many pastors and ministers.
And tonight, I see that I won with the evangelicals. The evangelical vote was for Trump.
And theres no greater honor. No greater honor. Were going to work together for many, many years. Were going to make it so good. Were going to be saying Merry Christmas again. Were going to be saying it...
And I won with women. I love winning with women. But I won with women. I won with men. We won with Hispanics. We won with African-Americans. We won with every  virtually every category. So its just been an amazing evening.
So again, I want to congratulate Ted Cruz. He is a tough, smart competitor. I want to thank my wife and my family. Its an incredible family.
I want to thank my staff  both my staff and my thousands and thousands of people that work for the Trump organization, and perhaps in all fairness more importantly on this evening and for what were doing currently, my staff where were running for the presidency.
And remember this. Our theme is very simple. Its make America great. We will make America great again. We will start winning again. You will be so proud of this country very, very soon.
Thank you all. Thank you very much. Thank you! Thank you very much!

So beautiful. She said, "Do you mind? I wrote something  coming out, I wrote something. Do you mind if I said it?" I said, "Not at all. Should I read it?" She said, "I dont want you to read it. I dont want you to read it."
Thank you very much. I want to thank Melania for that. That was very special.
You know, Wisconsins a really special place, and weve been all over today. Speeches all over. We had one before. Thousands and thousands of people standing outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. And we had another one in the morning, and its been an amazing day, and some phenomenal results.
You see whats happening with the polls. Boom! Like a rocket ship. Its like a rocket.
I guess I just heard when I walked in one just came out that were 10 points up. But dont worry about that. Pretend you didnt hear that. Go out and vote tomorrow. Okay? Go out and vote tomorrow.
You know, I always tell  I used to say this to politicians that run thatd be friends of mine, Id say, "Pretend youre a little bit behind. Okay? That way youd work hard. Youd never forget."
But you know, theres somebody that was  I saw just a little while ago in the audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and Melania just said hello and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. And some of you know who she is. Many of you know who she is.
But she was Miss Wisconsin. She has one of the most incredible spirits that Ive ever seen. Shes got her husband and her son and her son is absolutely magnificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.

Ill tell you thats an amazing and just an incredible story and were going to make sure that it goes as well as it can.
She was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and we all have to speak from the heart.
And you noticed no teleprompters? We dont have teleprompters. We want to do it right from here and from here and from here.
But I just want to  I saw Melissa, and I said, "I have to have you up" because her storys an amazing story and its a story of courage and were going to work with her family and were going to make sure everything goes well.
Okay, thank you all very much.
So, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, I said to a few of the folks Ive got to explain whats happening because our country is being decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by TPP, which Cruz wants badly and which is going to destroy Wisconsin.
This Trans-Pacific Partnership is a disaster. Cruz is pushing it hard.
Kasich, I dont think hes a player here. I mean, the guy is one in 32. Hes one and it was in his own state. And if I would have campaigned there two more days instead of staying in Florida, I would have won in my opinion Ohio. Hes one and 32.
Now, in all fairness, Jeb Bush was doing a lot better than that. Many people were doing better. Its called you get out. Hes taking my votes. We have to get over 50%. And how do you do that?
Look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, "Im one in 32. In other words, Ive won one out of 32 states," and you do what Marco did, which was great, and you do what Rand Paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and you get out.

And shes going through a very hard time. And she has been so supportive and so like just incredible of what were all  what were trying to do. Not me. Im a messenger. What were trying to do  make America great again and bring it back and stop letting the world take advantage of us both militarily and we dont win anymore.
We dont win anymore. We dont win with trade. We dont win with the military.
We pay for everybody elses military.
We dont know what were doing.
And she saw it and she was here early. And she knows that were going to take care of our people, and its going to be America first. Its got to be America first. We have no choice. We have no choice.
And shes with a friend of hers whos very well-known, Chelsea Cooley, who is a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. Also a great singer but I wont even mention that because Chelsea would be the last to want to have people know that. Chelsea is such a great friend of Melissa Young and Melissa Young  I just want to bring her and Chelsea onto the stage and maybe Melissa would like to say something and Chelsea. But this is just an unbelievable woman.
So could I ask Melissa to come up on stage please?

And by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say "I want to run" and you go to the convention and you run.
But it would be nice to see  because Ill tell you what, he takes my votes away much more than he does Cruz. And I dont like it. I dont think its right. I dont think its appropriate.
But you know what? If we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. Okay, folks? I mean, okay?
But Kasich voted for NAFTA. NAFTA was a disaster for Wisconsin and it was a disaster for our country.
Ted Cruz wants TPP and it is going to make NAFTA look like peanuts. What theyre doing to us with those documents, and Cruz is the one that insisted that we cant talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the agreement. He wouldnt let them do it. Hes the one that fought currency devaluation. Thats the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking our business, taking our money, and taking our jobs. And we cant let this go on any longer.
Now, theyre controlled by their PACs. Theyre controlled by the people that put up their campaign contributions. Theyre controlled, you know, with the lobbyists in Washington. They have signs on their forehead. Its like stamped into their forehead  "I take care of Cruz." Theyre specialists. "I take care of Kasich." "I take care of Hillary."
Oh, Hillary. Ayeyeye. "Take care of Hillary."
So we cant let it happen anymore. We cant let it happen anymore.
Its time  you know Obama used to say, "Time for change"? Ill say its time for change but real change this time not that change. Real change.
Obama yesterday  President Obama yesterday for the first time he started having reservations about the Iran deal. I could have told him that six months ago, nine months ago, long before it was signed. The ink isnt even dry and now hes finally starting to understand it was a big beautiful mistake and its only going to get worse.
And by the way, Iran is getting worse. They were supposed to come into the community. Remember? What a bunch of babies. Are we babies? Are we babies? Hello over there.
They were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you know, get involved.
Now, you see they just ordered 118 Airbus jets. Those are the big jets. 100. They didnt order Boeing.
The reason  one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. So we give them $150 billion and theyre not even allowed to give us money by investing, by buying our products. Okay? How crazy are we? How much longer is it going to last? When are we going to get smart? When are we going to stop?
We as a country are being ripped off. We are being ripped off by virtually every single country in the world. Okay? Whether its militarily or trade.
We dont win anymore. We cant win with the military. We cant beat ISIS.
Can you imagine Gen. MacArthur or Gen. George Patton? They say get rid of ISIS. What do you think?
...Its so sad to see whats happening to our country and were going to turn it around and were going to change it. And were going to make it rich again, and were going to make it strong again.
So, and so many different elements, and Ive been talking about trade. I always talk about trade.
Because when I announced on June 16th coming down the escalator with Melania, it was like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras; Ive never seen anything like it. So many cameras. And I took a deep breadth and I said, "Lets go." Because we have to do it.
You know, it takes guts. Running for president, believe me, takes guts. It takes a lot of guts. Believe me.
And even for the politicians they run at least theyre out on the line, and then you see the dishonesty. You see where I won Louisiana and then I find out that Im not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that I beat. What kind of stuff is that?
And somebody said, "Well, theres a rule and another rule." I dont care about rules, folks. I go out and I campaign. We win. We win. We get the delegates. Right?
But in the meantime, we have millions more votes than Cruz. Weve beaten him in most of the states. I mean, were just winning so much. And were winning by almost 300 delegates.
So were doing great. And I think we close it out before the convention. I think we actually close it out before the convention.

And thats like a prizefighter. You know, they go into unfriendly territory, and the champ, he goes in. And they say, "What do you think? You may have an unfriendly decision." He says, "No, when you knock them out, theres no unfriendly decision."
If we get the delegates, weve pulled out a knock-out. And thats the way its going to be, and I can see that happening because more and more people are calling, they want to get on board.
Frankly, when I looked at what happened  a friend of mine, whos a great  you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down  not very far from here. And he said, "With Wisconsin, youre going win." I said, "Well, what do you think? But Im not seeing polls that are great. Im a little bit down. Im down in some. Im a little bit down." He says, "No, no, youre going to win. But you have to be there. You have to come in and you have to talk to the people." Like we did this afternoon at the hangar. And he said, "Youre going to win. I mean, youre going to win." Hes a very smart guy, I want to tell you. Great guy. But he said, "Youve got to come in."
Weve been making  Ive been making speeches, three today, four yesterday, three or four the other day. Were here constantly. Youre going to get so sick of me. Youre going to say, "Oh, get him the hell out of here."
No, we are making so much progress and its been so inspiring to see the people. I mean, look at even you people. You dont sit down. If you want, you can. Oh, stay up. Stand up. What the heck? Hey, weve got plenty of time to sit down, right? Weve got plenty of time.
But I do appreciate that. Thats a sign of affection, and its a sign of respect, and I really do appreciate it. Thats really nice.
So we have to bring our country back and so many different things.
With China, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.
With Mexico, we will build a wall. We will have strong borders. Strong borders. Believe me. We have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. The walls going to cost $10 billion to build. And people, the politicians are saying, "How can you possibly get them to pay?"
Let me tell you something, folks. We have some good business people in this audience.
When you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, thats real easy. And thats on a yearly basis the $58 billion. Its really easy.
And they dont understand it. They said, "How are you going to get them to pay?"
I said, "Its so easy." And you understand it. Just rely on me. Okay? Rely. So easy. Thats so easy. And were going to have a strong border.
You know, two days ago I was greatly honored because the Border Patrol, the folks that do a great job, and theyre told to stand back but they dont want to stand back. They want to do their job properly. Theyre proud people. Theyre incredible people. Frankly, before the wall goes up, we might not even need the wall, but were building it anyway. Okay? Were building it. Believe me.
But the Border Patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave me an endorsement two days ago. And I didnt ask for it. I didnt know.
First time, first time theyve ever done it. Right? First time, theyve ever done it and they gave me an endorsement. And its so important.
Now, Sheriff Joe [Arpaio] from Arizona. You know, I won Arizona very big, and Sheriff Joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.
Look, we have to have strong borders. We cant let the Syrians come in that we have no idea who they are, where theyre coming from. We dont know if theyre Syrians.
This could be the all-time great Trojan horse. Who knows?
I have as big a heart as anybody. We want to help them. We want to build safe zones in Syria.
I want to get the Gulf States to pay for it. The Gulf States have nothing but money. We dont have money. We will run it. We will do a good job. Well get it done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. We cant do it.
...I keep getting these requests. You know, Al Green  the great Al Green wrote "The Snake". How many people have heard "The Snake"? How many people? Oh, do you want to hear "The Snake"? Do you want to hear it? I mean, people love it and I love it because it says whats going to happen to us if were not careful.
And this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are going  were going to have problems. Were going to have huge problems. Allowing people in from areas of the world we dont know where they come from. We dont know where their documents are. They say they dont have documents. They have no papers. No nothing. We let them in. How stupid can we be?
So this is called "The Snake" and I think its pretty good. All right? Are you ready for this? A couple of you have heard it but some of you havent.

"On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, Ill take you in, and Ill take care of you. Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heavens sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, cried the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake shed taken in had been revived. Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heavens sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. Youre so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadnt brought you in by now, heavens sake you might have died. Now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heavens sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the very, very healthy snake. I saved you, cried the woman, And you bit me. Heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous and now Im going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in."
Right?
Thats whats happening to our country, folks. Thats whats happening to our country and we cant let it happen. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. We have to be strong. And if were not, were not going to have a country.
And we need borders and were going to have borders.
And we need great trade deals and were going to make great trade deals.
And we cant let Mexico and I have great respect for Mexico and I respect their leaders but we cant let Mexico and China and any country you want to name steal our business, steal our jobs.
When you look at whats happening in Wisconsin  and you see it  the reason I beat your governor and I beat him badly was I just read off the statistics. I just read  all I did, I stood up and I read statistics. Youre losing jobs...Its very average. Its very average.
Our country is less than average. Okay? Our country is doing so badly. And its just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to get really tough. We have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. We have to do whats right for our country.
When the great Ford Motor Company  great company  when they build a $2.5 billion plant in Mexico, when Nabisco moves its massive plant to Mexico from Chicago, we cant let it happen.
When Carrier Air Conditioners, as you know, they just announced theyre moving to Mexico.
Pfizer is moving to Ireland.
But let me just tell you. So, I watched the politicians and they have no business instincts. But more importantly, theyre taken care of.
You know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, "Donald, let me ask you a question. These politicians  are they really that dumb?" I said, "No, theyre not actually that dumb. Some are. But theyre not actually that dumb. Theyre all taken care of by the special interests. And when you want something done, you see certain people in Washington."
Hey, who is better than me? I mean, take a look at me. I was before June 16th, I was a part of the establishment and they will do not whats right for you but they will do whats right for the company they represent or the country they represent and the United States continues to get ripped off, ripped off, ripped off.
And a lot of times, Ill say, "How can a deal be so stupidly made? These people are so stupid." Theyre not stupid. Theyre doing it for themselves. Theyre doing it because they want campaign contributions. Theyre doing it because they want money put in their PACs. They are totally controlled by the money. Believe me. They are totally controlled by the money, and thats not good for our country. Okay? Thats not good because terrible things are happening and were getting weaker and weaker.
Hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.

You look at the jobs we have. Even in Wisconsin, I mean, you see the jobs, the manufacturing, its all so down and so gloomy and throughout the United States. And its a disaster whats going on in our country. Were not going to have jobs left.
And they do it with manipulation of currency. And they do it with guile. They do it with so many different elements that our people dont even know whats happening.
Our politicians in most cases dont even know whats happening. And when they do know whats happening and they let it happen, its even worse.
So Im not taking money from anybody. Im self-funding my campaign.
And were going to get it. Were going to get it.
Now, I look at this U.S. manufacturing  I mean, just look at this. Look at these charts. I mean, you can see them...This is where were going.
You know thats not good. Right? This is where were going.
There was one that I just saw. Just got this. Its like incredible.
Look at this. This is U.S. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. Look at that chart. Another couple of years, there wont be any jobs.
And the jobs we have now are bad jobs. These are bad jobs. These arent good jobs. And everybody admits that. Even the other side says, "We agree. Theyre bad jobs."
And the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment  its a fictitious number. When you stop looking for a job, youre considered statistically employed.
It was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly by politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like the economy.
The economy is not good. The economy is bad.
Were sitting on a bubble. The banks have money. They give it to you for nothing if youre rich. If youre not rich, thats when you need the money, they dont loan it to you. So the people cant do jobs.
Probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies, you cant get the banks to give you money. The banks are controlled by the regulators. They system that this country is run under is out of control.
And were going to change it. Were going to bring back the jobs. Were going to bring back our companies.
And you know Ive had such a response. And the reason Ive had response is because of that and then I look at the ads today.
Im in hotel and I look at the ads and Cruz makes up these ads. "Were going to bring back jobs"  hes using my same language.
Heres the problem. They dont know where to begin. They dont know where to begin.
And if they did, Lyin Ted, lyin, he comes up. Did you ever see a guy like this? Just look what he did with Ben Carson.
Ben Carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and Lyin Ted, remember in Iowa, he said "Ben has left the race. Hes left the race." This was on election day. Its not like two days before or the day after. "During the election, he left the race." Okay? And people believed him and thousands of votes were cast not for Ben but for Ted Cruz. Its pure deception. Its lying.
And then there were many other things. And actually during one of the debates, Marco Rubio looked over and he said, "Youre a liar." And I said, "You know, I never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it." So we now call him Lyin Ted  Lyin. Its crazy. Its crazy.
I mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. And you know, Ive met a lot tougher people but Ive never met any human that lied as much as him.
And he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support I have? I have Jerry Falwell Jr. from Liberty University. I have all of these people. I have such incredible support.
And the evangelicals  he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but they dont like liars and they see he lies so much.
Do you ever see him  he walks up and he walks in with the Bible, held high. Right? Held high and then he starts to lie.
Boy, he is bad.
So anyways, I dont think that youre going to fall for that. I really dont think that anybody is going to fall  he doesnt talk. He debates...I said, "Ted, take it easy. Just talk. Talk. Talk."
But were doing really well. The whole thing is just working out. And I loved being here. You know, Ive been here for a long time. Ive been here for a long time. Im going here  were going to stay tomorrow. Were going to have some, I think Im doing Fox and Friends tomorrow morning. Im doing some shows tomorrow. Were going to do some shows and were going to be around and were going to make sure  we want to bring this home.
If we can  you know, we have a movement going on, folks. And its a movement of intelligence, actually. Its a movement of common sense. Thats all it is.
Were not going to let Carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, move to Mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of the country. Its not going to happen anymore.

And Im a free trader. And they say, "Hes not a  " Remember Jeb Bush? "He is not a conservative." I said, "What?" I am a conservative. But you know what? I believe in free trade.
But when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the free trade.
If you dont have smart people or if you have people like Ted Cruz that are totally controlled by the people that give him the money and theyre controlled by the establishment. I mean, look at the establishment.
This guy in his whole life didnt know what the word establishment meant. Now you have all these people going because they said, "Oh man, Trump is terrible. He doesnt want any of our money."
I had one friend that came into my office  I dont think Ive ever said this before. He came into my office. He wanted to give me millions of dollars. I said, "I cant take your money. I dont want your money. Im self-funding." He said, "No, no, no, youve got to be kidding." He didnt even know. He thought I was kidding. He wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. I said no, no, I dont want. Anyway, he was finally convinced that I didnt want his money and hes leaving. And I said, "By the way, what are you going to do now?" He said, "Im going to give it to another candidate." And I said, "Why?"
Theyre gamblers. They have to do it. Its like almost a disease. They have to do it. Its the craziest thing.
He loves me. He wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. Right? I would have had the greatest Super PAC in the history if I would have taken all the money.
And my whole life, you know, Ive said this before, my whole life as a business person is this. Right? Its okay. Nothing wrong with it. I take. I keep taking. I take and take.
But now Im going to take for the United States. Were going to take. Were not going to be the stupid people anymore. Were not going to be the stupid people anymore. We cant be. We cant be.
And with NATO when they dont pay, you know, I said  I was asked a question by Wolf Blitzer, a very fair question about NATO.
Now, you know, Ive been a businessman. World class. I filed my business papers. They were phenomenal. Everybody says great, great, great. I built a great company. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow. Some of the greatest assets in the world.
And I tell you that only for one reason  thats the thinking we need in Washington. We need some of that thinking.
And Wolf Blitzer asked me a question on television. He said, "Let me just ask you about NATO." Now, I havent been asked about NATO a lot but I understand NATO and I understand common sense, and Im like a smart person like many of the people in this room. Hopefully all of the people in this room.
But he asked me about NATO. I said, "Its obsolete." This was my first thing.
And you know what? Im the first one.
Guys that study NATO and good people but they study NATO and they say, "I dont believe it. What he just said, I never thought of it." They study it because theyre so into it that they dont realize because it was really put there.
You had the Soviet Union and now you have Russia, which is different but Russia is powerful so we could sort of say thats a balance. So well leave it.
But it doesnt really cover terrorism like its supposed to. Doesnt have the right countries. I mean, many of the countries and there arent  that you associate with terrorism.
And so I said number one, its obsolete.
I said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the United States pay far too much proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect other people?
And the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes  headlines the next day  "Trump doesnt want NATO, wants to disband NATO". And thats not what I said.
I said, youve got to pay your bills. And you know what? If you cant pay your bills, honestly, there should be  theyve got to go because we cant do it. You know, this isnt 68 years ago. This isnt when it was originally formed like many, many years ago, many decades ago, and you have to re-do things.
But it is interesting. Some of the smartest people have said "What Trump said is genius. Its obsolete. And you know what? Its true." Theres a lot of people, a lot of countries being given a free ride. We cant have the free rides any more, folks.
...Thank you. Well, we need somebody with that...And its America first, folks. Its America first.
So then, as you know, North Korea is a big problem. North Korea is a problem. A problem that could be solved easily by China but they dont want to solve it because they want to tweak us. Theyre building in the South China Seas a massive military fort. You know whats going on. They shouldnt be doing that.
And theyre taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of trade, you talk about the kind of money. How about this? We owe China $1.7 trillion.
Now, they take our money. They take our jobs...Im not angry at China. Im angry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.
Im not angry with China. If you can get away with it, you do it.
But they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. They take everything.
We owe them $1.7 trillion. Thats sort of like a magic act. Doesnt it? Amazing.
Japan, they send cars by the millions. They come off those boats. Los Angeles  I was there at the docks. I looked at the biggest boats youve ever seen. Biggest, greatest ships youve ever seen. The cars are pouring off the ships. We owe them $1.5 trillion.

Its like, well, how does this all happen? Okay? How does it happen?
Heres the story, folks.
Were going to change our thinking. Were going to be the smart people again. Were going to be so smart. Were going to be so sharp.
So a lot of people dont know we protect Japan. Do you know that? Does anybody know? You might know...We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect South Korea.
When you want a television set, who do you get it from? South Korea. Samsung. LG. You get it from South Korea.
So we protect all and big ships they make. These are monster, monster economies. We protect them.
They dont pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive military apparatus that we supply.
And you know what? We get that because we have people that dont know what theyre doing in Washington for many years. I mean, Im not even blaming it  Obamas the worst. Hes the worst. The worst.
I mean, when he just realizes, I mean he just realized that the Iran deal is a bad deal. It just took him  realize  I said, "Oh, why didnt you listen to me two years ago?" Just two years ago if he would have listened  can you imagine? Did you ever see a deal take so long?
By the way, usually when a deal takes that long, its bad automatically. I can usually tell you that.
But anyway, so we protect Japan. So it comes out...I said, look, I would have to tell Japan and Im talking about other nations also because I have great friends from Japan, I have great friends from South Korea. We have to go see them, go to talk to, have a meeting with them, "We love protecting you." We dont want them to arm necessarily. But you know, at some point, how long are we going to do this?
So we have to see them and we have to say, "Youve got to help us out."
You know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid of because were sitting on one of the worst bubbles youll ever see. Okay? Believe me. Weve got to straighten it out.
Weve got to straighten out our trade deals. Weve got to straighten out our military deals. Were taking care of all these countries.
So we go to Japan. And heres what the...I was telling the people and they said "Wow, that sounds good." Weve got to take  youve got to take care of us.
Now, theyll probably say initially "No". And then we leave and then theyre going to say, "Yes."
But if they dont say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal to walk. You have to be...
The problem with the Iran deal was that Secretary Kerry was like an amateur. Call him amateur night. He refused to walk. They were laughing at him in the streets of Iran. They were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it was even made. They were saying "This deal is unbelievable." They were laughing at the Secretary of State of this country. They were laughing at the United States saying that this deal is great. And they were dancing. Remember? Burning the flag dancing?
When they start dancing about a deal that Im making, when they start burning the American flag, Im out of there. Bye bye. Good luck.
And he just kept going back.
And I kept waiting. I wanted to call him. I wanted to call him. I wanted to say, "Walk." Because every single thing  hed say, "We would like to get this." "No!" "Oh, okay. Youve got it. We would like to get that." "No!"
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Its an unbelievable deal.
But just yesterday, Obama just yesterday he brought it up that hes very unhappy.
I mean, think of it. Think of it. $150 billion. Its the worst deal. We didnt get our prisoners back. We should have had the prisoners back before we started negotiating. Increase the sanctions. Dont sit at the table. Say "You give our prisoners back or were not starting." You leave. Theyll say "No". You leave. And what happens? You double up the sanctions. Within 24 hours, they call you and they say, "Youve got your prisoners." That could have been years ago. Right?
So we have people that dont know what theyre doing.
Heres the story. You need Trump. You do. You need Trump. You bet...You do. I mean, youve got to have Trump.
I mean, its sort of interesting because I see when I turn on the television, I see these ads about myself by crooked people.
I see these ads and theyre mostly wrong. A little bit sometimes are right but theyre all negative. You know. And Im looking, Im watching this on television  ad after ad.
In Florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and I won it in a landslide...Does anybody read? Does anybody watch television? You know, its not much for the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million  a record number in Florida.
They spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide  listen to this one  55,000 negative ads on me. Most of them was made up.
Ill give you one good example.
We have the Club for Growth, which is forget them. These are among the dumbest people that youll ever meet.
They come to my office. They want me to give them $1 million.
A friend asked me, "Please see them." I said, "Who are they?" "Theyre Club for Growth." Whatever that means.
So they come to my office. They asked me for $1 million. I say, "No, thank you." And thats it.

Then they write me a letter, which I posted, asking me for $1 million. I said very nicely  Im not a bad person  I said nicely "No, thank you." I mean, you can be rich but you dont have to be stupid. Okay? Why am I going to give them $1 million?
So, what happens is all of a sudden I see their name all over the place  "Club for Growth" and they talk about, you know, different things  ridiculous things. I mean, theyre the worst ads.
And by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, "If Cruz and Kasich got together and you added the delegates"  and they showed the delegates. Right? And you add them up  and Im over here with a lot. And they said  and they add them up and they show a graph that goes much higher than mine and its much lower than mine.
Theyre a fraud. And what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was a week ago. And we tweeted about it. And everybodys talking about it. And I see it last night again.
Theyre crooked. So heres what they do. Its like a form of extortion, I guess. Right? When you think of it. They come to your office. They ask for $1 million. You dont give them $1 million. They go out. They do negative ads.
These are the people  you know, if these people about Trump  they call it like "No Trump". What do they call that thing? They call it "Never Trump". Oh, you need Trump so badly though.
I was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligently against President Barack Hussein Obama, they would have beaten him. They would have had great budgets. They would have had everything they wanted.
But with him...I always say, "Obama is the worst negotiator Ive ever seen." You look at the  no, except with the Republicans. He gets everything he wants.
I mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wanted  fund Obamacare, bring people into the country that shouldnt be here. He got everything he wanted.
So he is the worst negotiator worldwide.
We have Sergeant [Bowe] Bergdahl. Right? We get Bergdahl, a traitor. No, no, think of it. This is a negotiation. We get Bergdahl. And they get  what do they get? Five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years in Gitmo, which were not closing down by the way. Okay? Were going to run it.
So we get Bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six  probably six  people were killed going out to try and get him back. He left. Hes a traitor.
So we get Bergdahl, and thats what we get. And they get five people that are right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody in sight, including us. Okay?
Weve got to stop it. Weve got to stop it.
So with Japan, I said they got to  maybe weve got to walk. And the next day the headlines  "Trump doesnt want to defend Japan", "Trump wants Japan to get their nukes".
Okay, heres the story, folks. You have Japan. Japan is very concerned with North Korea.
You know, number one, I like the way it is now but I want them to pay a lot more money. They probably will. But if they dont, its not so bad if they are at heads. Maybe were not supposed to get into that fight. Thats a bad fight. Maybe were not supposed to. Okay? Okay?
Same thing with South Korea. I mean, every time he raises his head and he starts talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating over, our planes start going over. We do all sorts of exercise. What are we get out of this? We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.
So, we have to be taken care of.
Now, Im talking as a person financially. Okay? Im also talking militarily. But Im talking financially.
We dont have a country that can do this anymore.
Saudi Arabia, until the oil went down and now theyre still making a fortune. But Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. We protect Saudi Arabia. If we werent there, Saudi Arabia wouldnt be there. If Saudi Arabia didnt have us for years protecting them, they would have been gone a long time ago as Saudi Arabia. Somebody else would have it, probably maybe Iraq because he would have come back.
And by the way, speaking of that, you know, I was against going into Iraq. Everyone says, "Oh, Trump is going to be very tough." I was against going into Iraq from the very beginning, from the very beginning.
And Im going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. But you know what? Hopefully, we never have to use it. Nobodys going to tell us what to do though. We have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.
But if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. Wed be much stronger because the Middle East is a disaster. You see the great migration. Its a catastrophe.
You see whats going on in Germany. Its a total mess. What she has done.

Can you imagine? She was Person of the Year.
I was supposed to be Person of the Year on Time Magazine. She beat me out and she destroyed Germany. Can you believe this?
Thats not good. I wonder if Time Magazine had that one to do over again what theyd say. I think well be in much better shape. Well, theyve treated me nice. Ive been on the cover a lot.
And the reason were on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the likes of which people have never seen.
So heres the story. Heres the story.
You know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, "What youve done is incredible." I said, "No, no, I have to win." He said, "No, no, it makes no difference. If you win, if you lose, it doesnt matter. What youve done is down in the history books. You will be cover for all time. Its incredible." I said, "No, sir. No, sir. I have to win. Because if I dont win, to me, I will consider it a tremendous waste of time and waste of money but a tremendous waste of time."
So heres the story. Heres the story. Were going to take care of our Second Amendment. Its being chipped and chipped.
Were going to get rid of Common Core. Were going to bring education back locally.
Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. Youre going to have great health insurance.
Were going to save your Social Security. Were going to save your Medicare. We are going to save it because we are going to make our country rich again. Were going to bring back our jobs. Were not going to let our jobs go. And were going to be able to afford  youve been paying in it a long time and a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. Its not going to happen. Okay? Remember that. Its not going to happen.
Were going to start winning again, folks. We dont win anymore. We dont win anymore. We dont win with our military. We cant beat ISIS. Were going to win. Were going to knock the hell out of ISIS.
We dont win with our vets. Our vets are being treated worse than illegal immigrants. Our vets are being treated so unfairly. Theyre our great people.
And other people  you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a lot of the vets will come up to me and say, "You know, Mr. Trump, we follow closely whats going on. Youre the only person that ever mentions the vets." Right?
And Hillary Clinton recently said about the vets that theyre being taken care of just fine. Theyre not being take care of fine. Theyre not being taken care of. She said theyre being taken care of just fine.
I know the vets. Nobodys spent more time with the vets that are running. And were going to take care of our vets. Okay?
We are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.
I have the greatest people in the world for dealing.
We use political hacks that dont know what theyre doing. Theyre dealing against the smartest people in China, the smartest people in Japan, the smartest people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and were not using them anymore.
Were using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this country and theyre endorsing me, and I know the best ones from the not so great ones. And were going to have great, great trade deals.

Were going to have a strong border. Were going to have a real border. Were going to have a wall. Mexico is paying for it. Were going to have a wall.
And were going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country. Because if you look at whats going on and you look at the tremendous crime and you look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, its  the drugs are pouring like water. Theyre pouring across.
You know when I won  New Hampshire is a special place to me because they were the first victory I had. And I won New Hampshire, and I wasnt expected to win it; Jeb was expected to win it. And I won it in landslide.
And Id go around and Id see the people of New Hampshire, and they tell me, "Mr. Trump, our biggest problem is heroin." I said, "Heroin?" It doesnt make sense. You know, you look at the beautiful trees or the woods or the roadways and the lakes. I said, "Heroin?" It just doesnt work. Its incongruous. Right? It doesnt work. But it was heroin. And I said, "If I get in, were going to stop that problem." Then I said, "Where does it come from?" They said, "It comes from the southern border. They come right in."
Now, New Hampshire rated it their number one problem. They have a tremendous problem. But many other communities, including you, but many other communities have this problem. Were going to stop it cold, folks. Were going to stop it cold.
And the bottom line is this. Look, we have a big, big day. And youre going to look back on this evening and youre going to say that was one of the great evenings of your life because we love the country. We love the country.
...I love you too. Thank you.
Really do. I love the people. I love the people.
You know, they say Donald Trump  my base is so strong. They say, "Donald Trump can do almost anything." In fact, one person today said "Anything".
And they interviewed a woman, I saw her last night on television sitting in a hotel room, which was not the most beautiful room Ive ever been. It was very clean, and I only want clean. I dont care about the room. I want clean.
But they were sitting there and they said to a woman  a wonderful woman, probably 55 years old, and her friends were there. And they said, "What would it take to get you to vote for somebody other than Donald Trump?" She said, "Dont play that game. Theres nothing he can do that would get me to vote against him." And I wanted to go up and I wanted to hug that television set.
I wanted to  I wish I could find out who she is. But we have so many people like that. Were all like that. I mean, a big chunk of the country is like that because were tired of stupidity. Were tired of seeing whats happening to our great country.
So, heres the deal. Youre going to go home and youre going to remember this.
But much more importantly, tomorrow, you get everybody you can and I promise you. Youre going to be so proud of your country. Youre going to go out and vote. Youre going to be so proud of your president. But forget that. Youre going to be so proud of this country again.
And youre going to remember the evening because were going to start winning again. Were going to win on trade. Were going to win with our military. Were going to knock out the ISIS.
Were going to win. We are going to win with the military. Were going to knock out ISIS. Were going to knock them out.
Were going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. Its not going to happen anymore.
Were going to win at the border. Were going to win with education.
Were going to win with our Second Amendment. So many people talk to me about the Second Amendment.
Were going to win at every single element of what were doing. And every single thing were going to win, win, win.
And youre going to say, "That was the single greatest vote that I have ever cast", and youre going to look back and youre going to be proud of yourselves and youre going to be proud of your country again.
So thank you very much everybody. This is a great, great honor. Thank you!
Get out and vote! I love you all! Thank you! Thank you very much! Thank you!

Thank you. I feel so badly. Outside we have 5,000 people and they cant get in. I feel badly. I want to apologize. We have speakers outside. But I want to apologize. Who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.
...Its an honor to be here. Its an honor to be with you. And very important. You know, were doing really well and millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Millions.
You know, I get a kick. I call him Lyin Ted. Lyin Ted Cruz. He stands up  and I win as you know, youve seen it. I have been winning all of the evangelical vote. But he stands up Bible high, puts it down and then he lies. You know, its amazing to watch it.
But he said, "Yeah, Im the only one who can beat Donald Trump. Ive done it time after time."
And I said, "Wait a minute. Ive won like most of the states."
I think he had like 5 or 6 and I had 20 or 22. Right?
And I said I cant believe it. And I have millions of votes more.
He says, "Im the only one that can out-vote him." And Im saying but I have like millions of votes more.
Ill tell you something so important. There is something happening. Its like a movement. Its incredible. Its a movement. And were part of the movement.
Not me. Im a messenger to be honest. Im a messenger.
And this is something thats so special and so amazing and its on the cover of time magazine. Its on the cover of every newspaper. Its something that has maybe never happened and theyre saying its phenomenon.
Sometimes they say Im a phenomenon. Im not. The message is what we want.
We want jobs. We want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.
And you know, Wisconsin. I wrote down some notes...and its like devastating.
So [Scott] Walker came out today. I wrote down notes about Wisconsin.
Look, he certainly cant endorse me after what I did to him in the race. Right?
But look at this. By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two-year budget deficit. Thats terrible.
By the way, these are out of books. Like this isnt Trump. This is out of books.
Total state debt is $45 billion. Now, maybe somebody is going to tell me thats wrong but again these are  $45 billion. Very high. One of the higher ones.
20,000 fewer people in the labor force in Wisconsin than seven years ago even though population has grown by 100,000. So your population is higher.
Now, I wouldnt have done this but he endorsed Cruz. What am I going to do? Am I going to say hes doing a great job? Hes not doing a great job.
You know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big Harley. I love Harleys. Right? But the motorcycle guys like Trump. They really like Trump.
And he doesnt look like a motorcycle guy to me. Im sorry. Im sorry.
Unemployment rate  well, they say  that cant be possible. Unemployment  they have down 20%. That cant be possible. What? Is it 20%? Effective or regular? Effective unemployment rate 20%. Hey, this is out of the big book.
800,000 food stamp recipients.
Middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. These are the stats. Right? You know about this, right?
It goes on and on.
Wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to Mexico since NAFTA.
Now, just so you understand, Kasich is running also. We forget about him. He voted for NAFTA.
Both of them want TPP. TPP  Trans-Pacific Partnership. Both of them want Trans-Pacific. That will make NAFTA look like a baby, and Wisconsin will be hit so hard.
...

...But the motorcycle guys love Trump.
I love the disabled veterans and the veterans. Were going to take care of our veterans. You know that, right? Were going to take care of our veterans.
What is it about Trump that they like?
Im serious. We went to Hilton Head. We went to different places, and there were hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. Beautiful bikes. Lots of Harleys, right? Lots of Harleys. Made in America. But beautiful, beautiful bikes...
I dont know what it is but they like me. I feel good with them. I feel safe. I got out took a picture. Secret Service went crazy.
I said, "These are great people. Dont worry about it."
But listen, I appreciate it, fellas, I appreciate it.
...Were going to keep you free. Im going to keep you free.
Because were getting rid of ISIS.
Were going to have good borders. Were going to have borders again. Were going to have borders again.
So here we have something thats pretty interesting  I love you too.
You lost 70,000 jobs to China. 70,000 jobs.
100,000 illegal immigrants living in Wisconsin. Taxpayers are paying tens of millions of dollars.
Look, I dont know. I dont know.
So what happened with Walker and I just will finish off with this  hes a nice man. He came up to my office like about a year ago before I did  you know, Ive been a politician for about eight months, right? I never thought Id be a politician. The last thing on my mind I want to be was a politician.
But I built a great company. I filed papers. The company is incredible. Very little debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.
And I say that not in a bragging way. I say that because thats the kind of thinking we need, folks.
We cant have China ripping us off and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam. We cant have it. We cant have it. And they are ripping us like theyve never ripped anybody before.
Weve rebuilt China. I mean, were rebuilding Mexico.
You look the other day you saw Carrier moving down. Carrier Air Conditioning. I buy those air conditioners  a lot of them. Im not buying any more of them. But Carrier Air Conditioning moving to Mexico. Ford moving to Mexico.
Nabsico  home of the formerly wonderful Oreo which we dont eat anymore. Right? We dont eat it. We dont eat it. Number one, its a good  its called an enforced diet.
But you know what? Look, were losing our jobs. Look at your jobs.
When I see that statistic, I mean youre losing your jobs.
When I went after your governor when he decided to run and I said, "You know, Im going to be nice to him. Hes a nice guy." The guy came up to my office. He handed me a plaque because I supported him. What do I know? I supported him. I gave $50,000 or $100,000. Thats a lot of money for a guy youve never met before. Right? Thats pretty good.
But I like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.
You know, to a certain extent, Id rather see somebody able to make a deal without having to go through all of that mess.
But he was fighting and I gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a year ago or so and he gave me a plaque. Beautiful picture of something. I havent  I never really got to read it to be honest. And I put it aside. That was it...
Because if we win Wisconsin, its going to be like over, pretty much over. Because were going to do great.
...Emerson poll came out. I think I have 67%, 68% in New York compared to like 10% or whatever, and you have Cruz talk about New York values, New Yorkers are no good.
I watched New Yorkers rebuild the World Trade Center. I watched New Yorkers dying.
Believe me, New Yorkers are good. New Yorkers are very good. But Cruz said theyre no good.
So anyways, so I think were going to do great in New York.
Were going to do great in New Jersey. Chris Christie endorsed me. Well do great in New Jersey. Good guy.
Ben Carson endorsed me. Sarah Palin endorsed me. Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff Joe.
And you know, with the evangelicals, Ive had so many ministers. Ive had so many pastors endorse me. And Jerry Falwell, Jr. endorsed me. It was incredible and weve done so well with the evangelicals. I mean, Christians, evangelicals, weve done so well.
In fact, in South Carolina, when we went to South Carolina, that was going to be Cruzs territory. He was going take it, except we won it in a landslide.

You know that. You saw it. He was there. This guy follows me around, Ill tell you.
But you were there. Remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. And then I started speaking. I started talking to people, and I started saying the good and the bad and the ugly.
And we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. Ive won just about I think almost every place Ive won with evangelicals.
And its been an amazing time.
So now Im here to talk to the people of Wisconsin. I have friends in Wisconsin. Ive been here before. Its an incredible place but its a place that has problems.
But you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesnt have a problem.
I remember when he was on the campaign trail, I was so nice to him. I said, "How can I hit him? Im not going to hit him. Im not going to hit him."
And I was so nice. I hit Jeb instead, right? Right?
And I hit Rand, Rand, old Rand.
And I hit a lot of people and they all went down.
Wouldnt it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make things happen that are positive? You know.
But its not with the mouth. Its really with the mouth, the heart, and the brain. Remember the brain.
I have a lot of friends. Theyre good with the mouth but theyre not good with the brain. It all doesnt work. Okay?
You know, we had an interesting thing today. A poll came out  a nationwide poll. A great poll. It was Trump 48%. It was an NBC poll. Trump 48%. Cruz was second in the 20s, mid-20s something. And Kasich was way down.
So what happened is they showed the poll. It was an NBC poll. They call it an NBC monkey poll. And it was on the Today Show, and it was on Morning Joe. Morning Joe held it up and he said, "Wow, those are great numbers."
48% is pretty good. You have three people. You know. I dont get enough credit for that.
Ive been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and Ive had like seven people. How do you get 45% when you have seven people? Nobody says that. They say, "He hasnt cracked 50%." How do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?
So Im at 48%. Poll was good  way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. And they showed Hillary Clinton  hers is very close.
Shes got a little problem. Could happen. Got a bigger problem with the emails than she has with Bernie to be honest with you. She should have. Her bigger problem should be with emails. Well find out how honest our country is, right?
But shes got a sort of close race. And they put her poll up and it was put up there. You know, big letters.
And then they said, "And Donald Trump is winning." That was it. They didnt put numbers up. They didnt say Im doing great. In fact, they said, "Donald Trump is winning," and they put some  a little slightly negative statistic in  it was like wait a minute. They put her numbers up and they didnt put my numbers up.
Folks, its so unfair. The press is so dishonest. Its unbelievable. That was Chuck Todd. That was Chuck Todd this morning on the Today Show.
They put Hillarys numbers. And Im winning by a lot and they said, "Donald Trump is winning. You know, lets go to a new subject, okay?"
Now, I guarantee you one thing. If I was losing or doing poorly, itll still be up. Itll be up all morning because they dont like whats happening. Im self-funding my campaign. Im putting up my own money. They dont like it.
Ted Cruz and Kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy industries. Theyre getting money from the pharmaceutical companies. Theyre getting money from everybody.
Folks, you cant straighten out this mess  were in a mess  if you cant do what you have to do.
When millions of dollars are given to Cruz and Kasich and millions from different industries, youre not going to be able to say, "Well, were going to do and go against the banking industry to do whats right for the people" if the banking industry gave you millions of dollars. Now, thats true with Hillary also. Now, shes gotten millions of dollars.
But Im the only one self-funding my campaign. Im in for a lot of money. I in a lot of money.
What is beautiful is when I was running against Jeb in New Hampshire. I was in for like $2 million. Jeb was in for like $48 million. I was in first and he was close to last.
I said, "Who do you want as your president?"
By the way, did Jeb endorse anybody yet? Because I havent heard. Because I think Jeb probably endorsed  huh? Did he endorse? It just shows you how important it is. Nobody even knows. I dont even know.
Hell probably  hell endorse  just so you know. Look, when youre in war, youve got to fight and you fight hard.
When I fight, I win. Youre going to win. You know that. Youre going to win.

But you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? Because you want to win and you want to win fast and a lot of people dont love you after you finish.
But I just love you. I dont care about that.
In fact, theyre asking Cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they said I won every single debate. Now I heard the other night, "I want to debate Trump". Ive debated him 11 or 12 times. Every single online poll has me winning the debates. Hes an okay debater but hes a bad talker. You know, everythings so dramatic.
And he waits. Phony. And he waits. You know, you ever see he goes sentence after sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. And then he goes again. It looks like were in the theater. Were not in the theater. Were in the real world.
So what happens  thank you.
...By the way, the Sheriff is here and hes a great guy and his people are fantastic. Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you.
I mean, the only thing I feel so guilty about all the people outside. Feel so guilty. Were going to come back. Were going to come back, come back to this area. You guys cannot come. Okay? All of the ladies can come but the guys cant.
But all of the people outside, were going to take a bigger place because I feel slightly guilty.
But look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. We have a very serious situation.
We have a country thats not protected.
We have a country thats sitting on a big fat bubble thats going to explode. In a certain way, Id say let it do now, dont do it after I get in. Three days itll explode and theyll say its Trumps fault. Okay?
Ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. We have interest rates that are so low that if youre rich like me I can borrow money for any amount. If youre a hardworking guy with a great farm or youre a hardworking developer or businessman you cant borrow money.
You can only borrow money really cheaply  think of how bad it is  you can borrow money for nothing practically if youre rich. But if youre rich, you dont need the money so you dont have to borrow it.
But if youre a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you cant get it.
The regulators are running the banks. Dodd-Frank is a disaster, by the way. Its a disaster. Its a disaster.
But the biggest disasters are regulations. Our rules and regulations are horrible. Were going to get rid of probably 85% of them. There are some we live with. But weve got to go back.
So many people in this area have told me regulations  regulatory climate  is the worst theyve ever seen.
I have a friend, whos a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lake for the purposes of environmental. Its like a puddle and theyd consider it a lake.
So we dont know what were doing. So heres whats happening. Were going to make our country so great again. Were going to make our country so strong again.
Our military is going to be so amazing. Were never going to have to use it.
Dont forget, I didnt want to go into Iraq. All these guys think that Im a tough guy so Im going to be so quick with the trigger. Im not going to be quick.
I was the slowest with the trigger. I didnt want the trigger.
Now, when Obama left though, he shouldnt have left the way he did. He gave a certain date, and the enemy said, "It cant be possible. Nobody would be that stupid. Nobody."
So I actually dont think itd hurt that much because I dont think the enemy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give a date  "Were leaving on this date." And then he left. They said, "He was serious!" They pulled back. They pulled back. Then you see what happened. They pulled back then they went in with fury.
But how about the 50 soldiers. He sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago, he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly, quietly sending them. What does he do? He sends them in and he makes a big press conference or announcement that "We are sending 50 soldiers in Iraq, Syria" and these soldiers have a big target on their backs.
Why cant we just keep our mouths shut? Why cant we be unpredictable? Unpredictable? Right? Why cant we be unpredictable?
Why does he have to tell  first of all, it doesnt even sound good when you say "50 soldiers" because it sounds like so small. People would say, "Is that good or bad?" I mean, that sounds small.
But then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?
These are extraordinary people. These are our finest. And theyre, you know, very dangerous missions. Why would you tell people that were sending them in? You just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.

They are right now  who knows whats happened to them? But right now, they have a big target on their back.
People that weve let go of at Gitmo have now killed Americans. Youve seen that. You saw that yesterday. That came out yesterday. We let people go out of Gitmo and they kill Americans. Okay. Is anybody surprised at that though? Would anybody be surprised?
And were keeping it open. Now theyre spending, you know, hundreds of millions to run it. I guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. Youd have a lot of money left over.
So were going to get efficiency in government. But were going to end Obamacare. Were going to replace it with something so much better and so much less expensive.
Were going to get rid of Common Core. Were going to bring our education local.
We are going to preserve our Second Amendment. Its under siege. Its totally under siege.
And Christianity is under siege. Ill tell you, Christianity is under siege.
You take a look. Im with the  Ill tell you what. Ive been with so many pastors lately and Jerry Falwell Jr. was an example  was telling me that  first of all, he told me something that "You remind me so much of my father." I thought his father was a great guy. What his father did with Liberty College and Liberty University. And Jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new place.
But when Jerry was so strong and so great.
But I was talking to  I probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, different folks came up to my office, and theyre really under tremendous pressure because they dont want to have their tax exempt status taken away. This happened during the Lyndon Johnson presidency.
And I said, "Why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?" Christianity. These are the pastors. These are strong people. These are really strong people. "Why do you allow that? Why arent you more forceful?"
And finally, somebody said, "Well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exempt status."
I said when did that happen exactly? It was during the Johnson.
Well, were going to try to get rid of that. Okay? Because thats really terrible.
Were going to try getting rid of  and Ive said that to a lot of evangelicals, a lot of great Christians. Were going to try to get rid of it because it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody of religion, of our religion, of Christianity, somebody thats an evangelical.
You take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.
Theyve actually taken their right of free speech away.
So I said were going to try to get rid of that and I think well be very, very successful.
You know, its interesting. I said how many Christians are there? Because you know, weve got men, weve got women. You cut it in half, weve actually have a few more women. But we are far more Christians than we have men or women. So in a way, its the most powerful lobbyist  the biggest group of people.
But theyre not allowed to talk because theyre petrified.
You saw what was happening with the IRS and what was taking place with regard to certain groups.
So we are going to try and usually when I say try that means Im going to get it done. That means Im going to get it done.
But we are going to try very hard. We are going to get that brought back and I think its going to be very hard to counter it.
Because if the Christians, and if the whole evangelical Christian sector gets together, nobody, nobody can beat 
You know, when I made the statement about banning Muslims on a temporary basis, I took such heat.
Now people are saying, "You know, Trump is sort of right about that." Now theyre all going, "Wow" because they see whats happening.
And I think if I would have said it about Christians, I think I would have had less opposition. Thats whats happened in this country. Thats whats happened in our country.
And we cant let it happen. Were going to turn this country around and were going to be the smart people. Were not going to be the dummies anymore.
Were not going to be where China made last year trade deficits $505 billion. Japan over $100 billion. Mexico $58 billion.
Were going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. Okay?
...Recently, I was in Florida and Marco, whos a nice guy actually. You notice how nice they are after youve defeated them?
I like everybody I defeat.
But when I ran against Marco, it was supposed to be...well, he started it. Right? Just like Cruz started the last deal. He started it.
But Marco came after me very viciously. You know he wanted to be Don Rickles, right? And it didnt work.
But what happened is I won by 20 points  almost 20 points  and a lot of these issue we were talking about it was big issues. And frankly, I wish I would have left about two days earlier. I wanted to stay in Florida campaign. I wish I would have devoted two more days to Ohio because I almost won in Ohio. I would have won in Ohio but I didnt want to take a chance leaving my beautiful Florida because I love Florida and I wanted to win that.

So if I would have left a couple of days early, I think I would have won Florida the same.
But Im not going to have anything happen in Wisconsin. We have to win.
If we  look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. Its time.
And believe me, you know, Cruz likes to pretend hes an outsider and in the meantime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.
So believe me, believe me, theyre all establishment.
And frankly in a way its worse because Cruz is establishment and yet hes got no relationship with the establishment.
He goes and he stands on the floor of the Senate for a day and a half and he filibusters, and these Senators  look, I know. Theyre tough cookies. I have the best  I have one of the great people  Sen. Jeff Sessions, whos great.
Nobody better than Jeff.
And you know, Cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech  "Sen. Jeff Sessions"  and then he comes out and he endorses me.
But when you think of it, look, out of all of these Senators, he has one supporter  Lee  whos his friend. I mean, hes his friend. And by the way took him plenty time to do it.
But you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people you can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.
Cruz has not accomplished one thing.
So hes an insider but its almost like the man on the street because he cant get anything done.
He dislikes people. He calls people like for instance he said horrible things about the Speaker and you know about the Speaker and he said about separately Mitch McConnell.
I mean, he said some terrible things about  how do you get things done when youre calling Mitch McConnell bad names. Okay? Lets just say bad names.
So hes sort of got the worst of all elements. Hes an insider totally but he can get nothing done. Okay? He can get nothing done.
Your new Speaker  how do you like Paul Ryan? How do you like him?
Wow. I was told be nice to Paul Ryan because  really?
Well, hes the Speaker. Hes a nice guy. He called me the other day. He was very nice.
But Im very surprised at this statement. Wow. Are you all Republicans? Are you mostly conservatives?
...I always say Im just a common sense conservative. And so, so important  common sense.
And somebody told me today that somebody else  I think, Walker  used my term.
You know, Walker used  I said, "Make America great again." I said, "Make America great again", and I copyrighted the term.
And then Walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he was saying "Make America great again" because he saw the response that I got. The difference is he didnt get any response. So then no.
But we told him he cant do that. That was the first real problem I had with him...
Now, I said a common sense conservative and today I heard he used the term because the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said hes a common sense conservative.
Well, I coined the phrase a few months ago. Thats what I am. I am a conservative.
Im very, very conservative on the military. Im very conservative with our vets and on health care and on lots of things.
But  and Im actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would say "Hes not that conservative on trade because he doesnt believe in free trade." Well, actually I do believe in free trade. But its got to be good trade for us, right? Its got to be smart trade.
It cant be where Wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where you folks cant get into China but China comes in here like its Swiss cheese. Thats what happens.
You know, China does not obey the rules.
Now, I get along great with China. I made a fortune dealing with China. I have two buildings because of China. Big ones in New York and one in San Francisco  Bank of America  that I have in partnership with a great company. And its because of China. I sell  I have one of the big leases with one of their big banks  with the biggest bank in the world actually from China.
I sell millions of millions of condos to people from China. I like China.
Im not angry China. I like them. I think their leaders are doing a great job for them.
But our leaders are doing a bad job for us.
Same with Mexico. I get along great. The Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. But their leaders are killing us on the border and theyre killing us on trade.
And Im not angry at them. Im angry at our country and our leadership because its grossly incompetent and were going to change it around and were going to get the best and were going to get the finest.

...So whatever you can do to spread the world, Ill be around. Im going to Green Bay. I love their team, by the way. You talk about a great franchise. No, I love it.
And you have a truly great quarterback. I dont know. Hes probably endorsing somebody else but I dont care. Hes still a great quarterback.
Tom Bradys a friend of mine. He said you have a great quarterback. Thats all right with me. When Tom says hes a great quarterback thats pretty good.
But you know, I really want to win Wisconsin because if we could win Wisconsin, were going to put all of this stupidity away.
Were going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and Im talking about basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of times people will see deals that are done and I mean take a look at the Iran deal. How bad is that I mean, just as a deal...
But many times people will say deals that the country makes, and theyll say, "How can our politicians be so stupid?" Theyre not stupid. Theyre being hit by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. Okay? They get tremendous campaign contributions. Theyre not stupid. Theyre doing it for themselves.
So again, Im not doing that. Im doing for you. Im working for you.
But just remember, theyre not so stupid like you think.
But when you look at the people funding Cruzs campaign and Kasichs campaign, and you look  dont forget  Cruz said, "Oh the banks, the banks." You know, hes going to be Robin Hood. Hes going to be this great guy.
And then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he borrowed about a million dollars from the banks  Citibank and Goldman Sachs. He borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room would be proud to have  a very low interest rate. Almost no interest. He forgot to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. He just forgot. He said, "Oh, I forgot. I forgot."
Okay? So then he hits the banks. Hes controlled by these people, folks. Okay? I mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. But theyre controlled by these people.
Im controlled by you. Im going to do the right thing for you. Okay? So remember that.
...
Q&A

22 veterans a day commit suicide. Thats correct.

Were going to take care of our veterans so much. Look, let me tell you, they  many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. They cant even get to see the doctor. You know that. They end up killing themselves before they see the doctor.
22 a day and a lot of people dont even believe that number. They think its almost like an impossible number  how can it be so bad?  and it actually could be even worse than that.
We are going to take care of them. From their standpoint, they wait, they wait, then they get bad service, then they wait some more  six, seven, eight days.
And sometimes theyll see the doctor and the doctor says, "I cant see you now. Im going on vacation."
You see the corruptness.
I just left Phoenix  21,000 people. Sheriff Joe was there. The job he did was incredible. Incredible.
You know they had a little protest. Right? That protest ended so quickly. He arrested three people; everyone else scattered.
You know, and you have that kind of a Sheriff here. You have a tough cookie here. I can tell you. I just met him and I can tell you.
But you know I have a great policy plan and Ive gotten a lot of credit for it and its on DonaldJTrump.com. And with the veterans when theyre waiting for exorbitant time  even for a little time  theyre going to go to the doctor. Theyre going to go to local doctors or local hospitals.
Many of the hospitals are dying for business. You know that theyre dying. Some of these hospitals are dying. Theyre going to get immediate treatment, immediate service, were going to pay the bills, and were going to save a fortune, and theyre going to get great service.
And everybody is in love with it. Everybody loves it. And thats whats going to happen. So were going to take care of our veterans.
If we cant take care of our veterans, we cant take care of anyone. So were going to take care of our vets.

Boy, do you look good though. You look good and tough. I wouldnt want to fight you.
Do you think I can take you in a fight? I dont think so.
How about we do it right now? That would be great for television...
Go ahead.

...Let me tell you this. Our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immigrants who come in our country...You dont even have to write it down. Were going to do things about it.
You know what youre saying? Ive heard this so many times before with the daycare and everything else. We are going to take care of our vets.

By the ways, speaking of increase, Cruz and Kasich want to destroy your Social Security, folks, okay?
I want to bring money back into this country. I want to bring jobs into this country. I want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. I want to take our wealth back from China, from Mexico, from all of these countries that have our wealth. Theyve taken them like were a bunch of babies.
And were going to save your Social Security and were going to save your Medicare. They want to get rid of it. Okay? Remember that.
...
I want to use not too many executive orders folks. You know, because executive orders came about more recently. Nobody ever heard of an executive order.
Then all of a sudden Obama, because he couldnt get anybody to agree with him and he start signing them like theyre butter.
So I want to do away with executive orders for the most part.
But look, just do me a favor. Stick with me. Youre going to be okay. All right?
...I know, what youve said Ive heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge problem. Huge problem. And your wife not working? Huge problem  she cant. So anyway, I bet you have a great wife. Good wife? Better believe it.

...Were ending Common Core. Youre not going to be educated  your kids in Wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in Washington, D.C. by bureaucrats  many of whom  I cant say all  but many of whom dont care for your kids. They couldnt care less. They get big, fat salaries. Your kids are going to be educated locally.
Were terminating Common Core, and you will see something thats magic. And Ive seen it where parents and all of these people  the uncles, the aunts  theyre all on the school boards. They get professionals. They have great principals.
You cant see whats going on from Washington, D.C. Many of the people never even come here. They sit behind their desk in Washington. They draw big salaries. And theyre telling you how to educate their kids. Not going to happen that way.
And Ive even seen it where they keep graduates  the child graduates and those parents stay on. They love it because their child went through the system. They love it and they become so good at it. Thats whats going to happen.
Were one of the worst in the world in education. Were going to be one of the better ones. Not necessarily  you know, I dont know that were going to beat Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and China. But were going to come very close.

Discipline in schools. I dont think that Wisconsin should have a big problem with discipline. You have a big problem with discipline?
...Well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. We have to get discipline 
I mean, I have a case. I have a wonderful guy  campaign manager. You talk about discipline. And you probably saw what happened today with my campaign manager. Hes a good guy. Corey [Lewandowski].
And by the way, the easiest thing  "Corey, youre fired." I cant do that. Cant do it.
So fortunately, I have a taping system. You know, very  Im rich so I have tapes all over.
So this young woman who complained, was all  she was talking about being maybe thrown to the floor and all this. I said, "Oh, thats horrible." And then we saw the tapes.
Did anybody see the tape? What did you think? Right? Nothing.
Women  what did you think? [Audience response inaudible]...
I mean, she wasnt like  her face stayed the same.
If somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad  dont forget  initially she said thrown to the floor. But if somebody squeezed your arm or hurt you, wouldnt you start screaming or something?
Did you see any change in her face? [Audience response inaudible]
...Its horrible. Its horrible. Honestly, its horrible.
And the best thing I could do is say  but I cant destroy a man. Id destroy him. Got a beautiful wife and children and Im not going to destroy a man for that.
And you know what? When I saw that at the tape, at first I said, "Oh, this is terrible." Then I saw the tape. Its my tape. Im the one that had the tape. Its on the ceiling of this incredible club in Jupiter, Florida, and were all leaving and we have a press conference. Right?
And the press conference lasted a long time. It was like 45 minutes. So that was enough.
Im leaving with a whole big gang of people. People pushing left and right, left and right.
And all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. She grabs me or hits me on the arm. In fact, Im like this with my arm up and then he goes by and maybe he touched her a little bit. But I didnt  it was almost like he was trying to keep her off me. Right?
[Audience response inaudible]
Like he was helping her. And did you see her fall to the ground?
[Audience response inaudible]
Okay, because she talked about falling to  now after, I must tell you, her statement changed big league because she said go to the ground. You know, all this. I could read it to you. Does anybody want to hear it?
I mean, I want to be accurate because Id like the press to treat me.
So before she knew she was on tape, she said "I was jolted backwards."
Was she jolted backwards? I mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. I mean.
"I was jolted backwards. Someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me down. Campaign managers arent supposed to forcefully throw reporters to the ground, except she never went to the ground. She never even came  flinched.
She didnt  you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even the bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little bit, youre "Whoa!" Right? I mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. Look at her face. Its zero.
Theyre going to destroy a mans life?
And then I have Cruz saying, "Oh, that was a terrible thing. That was a terrible thing."
Let me tell you something, folks. If I win, if I lose, I didnt need to do this. Im doing this because I just had a beautiful grandchild with Ivanka. Ivanka and Jared  beautiful, beautiful grandchild. Its my eighth. Im doing this all for them.
I didnt need to do this. This is not so easy. And I had no idea. You know, maybe none of us did. You know, I had no idea the message was going to get across. Its a message of competence. It really is. Its a message of common sense and its a message of competence.
And I had no idea that wed have millions of more votes than we had when we had that stiff Mitt Romney  a total stiff  who by the way hes a dope. Hes not a smart person. Ill tell you right now.
Let me tell you about Mitt Romney. That was an election he should have won and he lost. And he should just go away and let the big boys do it now because you know what? Thats an election that should have been won.
And Ill tell you what. I helped John McCain and at that time, honestly, that was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. But he lost.
And I helped Mitt Romney a lot and he lost. And I said, "This time, were going to do it ourselves. Were going to win. Were going to win." So just remember that.
Were going to win because of Wisconsin, I hope...

Right! Shes so smart. I dont want them to know. I dont want to tell Putin what Im thinking. Shes so smart.
What you just said...what about Ukraine? Dont worry about Ukraine. Ukraine is going to be fine. Just dont ask me why.
You know, this world of politics  "Mr. Trump, you said -" dont forget Im the one that said take the oil. I was right. They didnt take the oil. You know who has the oil right now? ISIS has the oil.
You know, that Libya  ISIS has all that oil from Gaddafi, all of that big oil from Gaddafi. He took it. Were like a bunch of dummies.
Why arent we embargoing? Why arent we creating a nice big circle so they cant get the oil out? Why arent we taking that oil back?
Look, look, look, Im the one that says though I dont want to say everything.
If I win, I have a good chance of winning. Im the frontrunner by a lot. I want to go in there. I want to knock the hell out of ISIS. I dont want to tell all. I really mean this.
I dont want to tell everybody in this room  and look at all the cameras that are going now  I dont want to tell the world what Im going to do because theyre watching.
Just let me do it folks. I will do it. You would be so happy. You dont have to know the details. Okay? Let me do it.
You know, I used the word before. We have to be a little bit unpredictable. We cant say, "Well, were going and attack on March 14th and then were going to hit them from the front and then were going to hit them from the back."
You know, Obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. He said, "Were going in next week."
Look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust  there has to be some trust. Right? Do you trust?
Weve got to stop the stupid. Thats why I really think your question is so great  "I dont want to hear how youre going to do it, Mr. Trump. Just do it." Ill do it. Okay?
I love that. That woman! That woman! Thank you, honey. Thank you.

Okay. I can see why.
Woman:
Thank you. You have been  I just want to say thank you. You saved me in so many ways.
In recent years, Ive been struggling with an incurable illness and Im on home care now. Its caused by a doctors medical negligence.
And in those dark days fighting  right now all the tubes have been removed and I have a Do Not Resuscitate Order and I have a seven-year-old son  in those days in the hospital, I received from you a handwritten letter that said, "To the bravest woman I know."

I remember that. I remember that. Such a wonderful, beautiful woman. I mean, just an amazing woman.
And are you coming along okay?
Woman:
No, sir. But thats okay because Im here right now to thank you in person and that was my biggest dream.
And I wanted to thank you because through you and your organizations, my son whos Mexican-American, seven-years-old, through your organization and just being able to stand on that stage with you back in 2005 the outpouring of love that can from that ultimately provided my son when he graduates high school with a full ride to college.

Thats great. And you know what well do? Were going to watch him. Youre going to watch him. Were going to be watching your boy. Okay? But youre going to be hopefully around. Youre not going to have to have anybody watching. Youre going to hopefully be around. Those doctors are going to be so wrong. But well be helping you.
Woman:
So we thank you. God bless you. And just, you know, hes a Mexican-American, and you because of your efforts have sent him to college. And I have been writing letters to him for when Im in heaven to tell him that what youve done for him now he has a great responsibility to pay it forward just as you have done for us.

Thats so nice. Thank you.
I have to go down and say hello. Is that okay?

...Very sad but I think its going to be really a story of hope and something that is really great is going to happen out of that. You watch.
But it sort of tells me when I first said this people would say, "Oh, it will cost a lot." Forgetting about the campaign. Thats peanuts by comparison. You know, Ive spent tens of millions of dollars.
But the big thing  I lost certain businesses and I owned the Miss Universe Pageant. I bought it very inexpensively many years ago  15 years ago  and because of the fact that they thought I was against this woman or that one, I had a hard time with television.
Now, the good news is I sold it for a wonderful  I was very happy with that. But I didnt want to sell it. But I sold it and I built it to really a great company. We did a great job with that company  Miss Universe, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA.
But other businesses  I sort of  like the shirts and the ties with Macys. Macys was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal immigration and they ended the shirts, ties. Who care? I mean, thats not a big deal.
But Im doing something  nobody is giving up what Im giving.
I mean, when Cruz runs, he runs. If he wins, great. If he loses, great. You know, its him. Hes a politician. They just  they run, they win, they lose, who knows?
But these guys run for office. Thats all they do.
Ive always heard that if youre a very successful person, you cant run for office, especially for president. You just cant run for president, and I can see it. I have so much false press about me. Things that are so false.
You know, I saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads on me. 56,000.
In fact, in Florida, I own Doral and in Florida we had the tournament there two weeks. Adam Scott  the great Adam Scott  the great golfer. He was winning. And in between shots, I told you this after the victory speech, in between they have commercials and they were all about Trump. Negative, horrible, negative commercials. Mostly false. Mostly. Not all false. But mostly false, I have to be honest.
But it came out the other day, I think it said "$68 million, 55,000 negative ads." Negative ads.
And when I was running in Florida, I said "How is it possible to win?" I mean, with all of this because I knew it. You couldnt turn on in Florida where I was you couldnt turn on the television without seeing Trump commercials. Sometimes four or five in a row. And they were horrendous. Done by very, very bad people. Very bad, evil people.
And I said, "How it is possible to win?"
And God helped me. Honestly. Because I won in a landslide. I won by almost 20%.
And now theyre doing it here. Club for Growth. Its a crooked outfit.
Look, Club for Growth  you ever hear this? Club for Growth  a friend of mine, hes a conservative guy. He goes would you do me a favor? See Club for Growth. I said, "Whats Club for Growth?" He said, "They want to talk to you." I said, "All right. Send them up." Hes a friend. Hes a good guy. And now Im in politics so I have to see people I wouldnt normally...
So Club for Growth, they come up to my office. This guy was I think a former Congressman. And he tells me a little bit about Club for Growth and Im falling asleep. And then he goes, "$1 million." And I said, "$1 million for what? I dont even know you. Ive never met you." I said, "Do me a favor." Im trying to be nice and I said, "Go back and write me a little note if you can." And he was stupid enough to write me a note.
He writes me a letter asking for $1 million. I let him know that Im not interested. You could be rich. Id rather take a million and throw it all over this room. Id rather give it to you, to your boy.
...They write me a letter. Its like extortion. They asked me for a $1 million. I said no nicely. And then theyre doing ads all over Wisconsin. Club for Growth. They did it all over Florida. Club for Growth. About eminent domain.
By the way, without eminent domain, you wouldnt have highways, you wouldnt have hospitals, you wouldnt have bridges. You need eminent domain. If somethings in your way and youre building a highway, if youre producing 7,000 jobs and you need a little corner of someones property, every once in a while.
You know, its funny. These guys all want the Keystone Pipeline. Right? Everyone. Conservatives. Conservatives want the Keystone Pipeline. I like the Keystone Pipeline too. But they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain, they wouldnt go 15 feet. They wouldnt be able to build it.
So, they dont want eminent domain. They do commercials about eminent domain. They love the Keystone Pipeline, and the whole Keystone Pipeline is based around eminent domain because youve got to go from Canada, where Cruz was born, to Texas, where hes representing. Think of it.
This guy  and dont forget that. Remember what I said. Im going to win. Just remember what I said. Im going to win. And I thank you...
Im going to win. But remember this. If for some reason he does, he gets the nomination, the first thing  remember, Im a good prognosticator, Im a good predictor  the first thing thats going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue Ted Cruz. He was born in Canada. He lived there for four years. The head of the Harvard Law School, one of the top people in the business in terms of Constitution, is saying that, you know, hes wrong. And we have a bunch of other people that are much stronger than even that.
Remember this. If Cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is if he doesnt get  because its all establishment. You know, if I go into that whole mess of the convention, Im not the establishment. I dont take their money. I dont hire their people. I dont do any of that stuff. Okay? So you have a disadvantage.
But if Cruz wins, remember what I said. Just remember. Again, hes not going to win. But if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few days he will be sued by the Democrats that he doesnt have the right to be president. And I think theyre right because he wasnt born on our soil. He wasnt born. Hes not a natural born citizen. Hes not a natural born citizen.
I dont like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody. He is not a natural born citizen. So if for some reason he should get the nomination, I really believe youre wasting your time and boy do we have a problem because youre going to have somebody thats going to be sued, probably will lose the lawsuit.
Again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whole thing for a long period of time, and he was a Canadian citizen joint with U.S. until 14 or 15 months ago. Did anyone know that? So he was a senator from Texas, only because of the great Sarah Palin by the way, without Sarah Palin, he could have never won that election. It was a fluke. But he was a Senator from Texas. He lived  he was a joint citizen. Now, he finally gave up his citizenship to Canada like 16 months ago. He said, "Oh, I didnt know I was a citizen of Canada also." Just like he didnt know that Goldman Sachs and Citibank gave him money. I mean, this guy is  you just have to study him, folks.
Look, again, Im doing this. Were going to win. Were going to turn this country around. Were going to make America great again. Were going to win a lot. But you have to know the facts.
I love you all. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Get out there and vote! Thank you!

Thank you. Thank you! Thank you very much everybody. This was an amazing evening. This was a great evening.
They just announced North Carolina.
I dont know if theyve even announced Illinois yet but were leading by a lot so I think theyre going to announce it.
Florida was so amazing.
And I want to thank our friends. Northern Marianas Islands have been so incredible, and we picked up nine delegates this morning. I heard very early in the morning  nine delegates. Thats a lot.
And I just wanted to thank the governor, Ralph Torres, great guy, Chairman [James] Ada who was a fantastic man and that was a very nice start to the day. That I can tell you.
Many things have been happening over the last short period of time.
CNN was very nice. They came up with a poll. The poll said 49% to 14% and 15%.
We just had one from the Economist just came out  53%.
And it was sort of interesting because I was watching the news a little while ago and one of the commentators, who Im not particularly fond of but these are minor details, said "But Donald Trump doesnt get over 50%" because Im at 43%, 45%.
Actually now according to the Economist, Im at 53%.
And I have to explain to these people they dont understand basic physics, basic mathematics, basic whatever you want to call it. When I dont get over 50%, we have four people. Right? We have four people. Do you understand that?
So when I get 53%  and this one is an example, I had 53% and thats with four people. Thats an achievement just mathematically when you can get over 50%.
So someday, someday theyre going to understand, someday when we take it all, theyll understand. But it is really ridiculous.
I want to thank my family. My boy, Eric and Don. Theyve been working so hard.
Ivanka and Jared have been amazing. Ivankas home right now. In about two minutes, Ill call her. Shes about to have a baby so I dont know. Weve been thinking about that now for a little while but Ivanka has been so helpful and Jared has been amazing and its been just great.
I want to thank Barron for putting up with the fact that I never see him anymore. And I want to thank Barron. I never see my Barron and its his birthday on Sunday so were very happy about that.
So its a little tough. You know, were going away and he goes, "When are you going to be come home, daddy? When are you coming home?" I said, "Well, in about two and a half weeks." Its been pretty tough.

Youre traveling all over the place. Its really amazing. Yesterday I went up to Ohio. I went up to Youngstown.
We had an incredible crowd and just amazing people in this country. We have so, so many great people.
We will someday in the not so distant future if I win  otherwise its not going to happen I have to be honest with you. But Apple and all of these great companies will be making their product in the United States, not in China, Vietnam and all of 
And were not going to be losing our companies. You know, our companies are leaving our country rapidly, rapidly, whether its Carrier air conditioning, whether its Ford, whether its Eaton.
I was in Cleveland and Eaton Corp. theyre leaving and so many companies are leaving. And frankly, Im disgusted with it and Im tired of seeing it and theres no reason for it. Its just gross incompetence at the highest level. We should not allow it to happen. Pfizer, great company, pharmaceutical company, theyre going to Ireland.
And theres so many more. You have corporate inversions. You have people who cant get their money back into the country because the politicians cant get along. They cant make a deal.
Everybody agrees  Democrat and Republican  everybody agrees the money should come back...trillion dollars outside of this country. Everybody agrees that the money should be here and the politicians for three years havent been able to make a deal.
And we could make a deal. Theres an example of something that you could do if I sat down with a few of the senators, a few of the congressmen, you could make a deal on that in 10 minutes if you know what youre doing because everybody wants to do it.
And companies are actually leaving our country to get their money, not only because our taxes are too high, which were going to lower by the way. But companies are leaving our country in order to go and get money thats their money because theres no way of bringing it in.
So, weve got a long way to go. But I think at some point its going to get done. This has been very exciting, this whole process.
We started, I was one of 17 people  senators, governors. Ive had such great support. Dr. Ben Carson the other day endorsed us. Great guy. Great guy. Wonderful man. And Chris Christie endorsed us. That was so incredible.
And today Pam Bondi came up and endorsed us. She was great. She is a truly wonderful woman, of the job shes done in Florida is incredible.
You know, so many  weve had such incredible support. Paul Ryan called me the other day  tremendous call. I spoke with Mitch McConnell today. We had a great conversation.
The fact is we have to bring our party together. We have to bring it together.
We have something happening that actually makes the Republican Party probably the biggest political story anywhere in the world. Everybodys writing about it all over Europe, all over the world theyre talking about it.
Millions of people are coming in to vote. This was an example of it today. Many, many more people. Im looking at the polling booths. Im looking at the different polling booths all around the country where its up. And the lines are four, five, six blocks long. And the woman  one woman was there for 40 years. Shes been working the polls. And she said, "Wed have two people here. Wed have three people. Now look at the line." And the line looked like it was, you know, long. It was really long. Five deep and long. And its just a different thing.
We have a great opportunity and the people that are voting are Democrats are coming in, Independents are coming in, and very, very importantly, people that never voted before. Its an incredible thing.

I want to pay my respects by the way to Todd Palin, Sarahs husband. Sarah was here. She was incredible. She was making a speech on my behalf and fantastic and everybody loves her. And what happened is he was in a very bad accident. Hes tough as nails. Hes going to be fine. But I just wanted to pay my respects by the way to Todd.
So, our theme when we started and Melania and I came down. Yeah, sit down everybody. Please. I mean, this is Mar-a-Lago. We give you seats. You dont have to stand. Im looking at all these people.
Cory, good job, Cory. Good job. And Hope and our whole squad. Right?
So when this began, Melania and I and I said, "Got to do it." And she was so supportive and shes been so supportive. Its been amazing. And we have to do it.
We came down the escalator and it was about trade and it was about borders. And what happened is pretty quickly after that and we were  we shot right up. I shot right to the top of the polls and have been leading in the polls almost from the beginning without fail.
We went up in June. Most people said Ill never run. Hes just going to have fun. Hes having a good time. This isnt necessarily  I mean, Im having a good time. You know, Im having a very nice time. But you know what? Im working very hard and there is great anger. Believe me. There is great anger.
One of the broadcasters was saying, "Is there anger?" And I said...I was supposed to say, "No, theres not. We love the way things are working. We love the deal you made with Iran. Its wonderful. You give them $150 billion. We get nothing. We love all the deals. The trade deals are wonderful. You lose $500 billion a year with China. We lose $58 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Its a total imbalance."
We dont make good deals anymore. We dont win anymore. As a country, we dont win anymore.
And they asked, "Is there anger from your people?" ...Theyre not angry people but they want to see the country properly run. They want to see borders. They want to see good health care. They want to see things properly taken care of. They want our military rebuilt. Our military is in a very bad state. They want it rebuilt. Very, very importantly, and they want the Second Amendment by the way protected and protected strongly and thats going to happen.
And you know what they want so badly? They want our veterans taken care of. Our veterans are treated so badly.

So, we started and something happened called Paris. Paris happened and Paris was a disaster. That was  there have been many disasters. But it was Paris.
And then we had a case in Los Angeles where it was in California where the 14 young people were killed. And it just goes on and on and on.
And what happened with me is this whole run took on a whole new meaning, not just borders, not just good trade deals. Were going to make the best trade deals youve ever seen.
Weve got such endorsements from Carl Icahn and the smartest people in business. And these people are going to be negotiating our deals and theyre the best in the world. We have the best business people in the world. Were going to have such great deals. Were going to do so good with trade. Were going to do so good on the border.
But it took on a whole new meaning, and the meaning was very simple. We need protection in our country and thats going to happen and all of a sudden the poll numbers shot up. And Im just very proud to be a part of this.
I think were going to go. Were going to go on a lot of trips over the next month but I think were going to have a great victory.
And I think more importantly than anything else we are going to start winning again. This country is going to start winning again. We dont win anymore.
We dont win with our military. We cant beat ISIS. Were going to knock the hell out of them.
We dont win at trade  China, everybody, Japan, Mexico, Vietnam, India, name the country. Anybody we deal, anybody we do business with beats us. We dont win at trade. Were going to win at trade. Were going to make our country rich again. Were going to make our country great again. And we need the rich in order to make the great, Im sorry to tell you.
So, Im going forward. We had a fantastic evening. I would have never thought this could have happened. I guess were waiting for one result which possibly will be very successful also.
But to win the states that weve won and to win by the margins and especially, look, this is my second home, Florida. To win by that kind of a number is incredible. Its record-setting.

And I have to say that number one, I want to congratulate Marco Rubio on having run a really tough campaign. Hes tough. Hes smart. And hes got a great future. Hes got a great future.
But I have to say and nobody has ever, ever in the history of politics received the kind of negative advertising that I have. Record, record, record. By the way, mostly false. I wouldnt say 100% but about 90%. Mostly false, vicious, horrible.
They said it was $18 million the first week, meaning last week, and $25 million. It added up to over $40 million.
And you explain it to me because I cant  my numbers went up. I dont understand it. Nobody understands it. My numbers went up.
I mean, its been an interesting experience. Last week, Adam Scott won at the Trump National Doral. Won the big tournament, the world championship of golf. And Adam, whos a great guy  I guess a lot of you folks saw that  but Im watching...we have television screens all over. Were down at this gorgeous green at Doral and everything is working beautifully and then a commercial comes on. The worst commercial and Im with these wonderful people from Cadillac and all these top executives, and Im saying, "Look over there! Look! Dont watch it. Dont. You dont want to watch it." Im saying, "Isnt the grass beautiful? Look! Look! Dont watch."
And they came in waves one after another after another and it was brutal.
And then Adam comes in. Hes this handsome kid from Australia, one of the greatest golfers in the world, made an unbelievable shot on the 18th hole to win the tournament. Hes a great champion. And were giving the award.
And just before we break for a commercial, "Well be right back with our great champion from Australia, Adam Scott" and heres the commercial and I said, "No!" And it was two of them  two of them. Oh, what a day that was. What a disaster. What a disaster. Unbelievable.
So again, I just want to congratulate everybody. This is a really interesting process. Its an amazing process. Its very tough. But it is  by the end, if you get to the end, you can handle a lot of things including pressure because theres nothing like it. Lies, deceit, viciousness, disgusting reporters, horrible people. Its true. Some are nice. Some are nice. Some really disgusting people back there.
And I just want to say were going to go forward and were going to win. But more importantly, were going to win for the country. Were going to win, win, win, and were not stopping. Were going to have great victories for our country.
Thank you very much everybody! Thank you!

...So its so important. You getting out to vote. Its just so important because our country has been taken away from us. Its going so fast.
And you know, youre talking about Second Amendment because I was asking with Randy and a lot of people, I was talking to some of the people before, "What would you like me to focus on?" and they said, "Just Second Amendment. Second Amendment."
Now, the Second Amendment means a lot of other things too...The Second Amendment in under siege. You know that. You know that very well.
We lost a great Supreme Court justice and nobody thought this was going to be part of the equation. And all of a sudden if somebody gets in thats the wrong person, theyll take away that Second Amendment so fast your head will spin.
You see Bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the Second Amendment. Hillary is a disaster on the Second Amendment. No, they want to take it away.
So, its just not going to happen. Its not going to happen.
...But we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great Second Amendment person.
I just heard coming up, you know, the Senators. Weve been very disappointed. Im a Republican. Many of you are Republicans. But were not being protected whether its a budget. You saw the budget that was approved a month ago. It was approved by the Republicans. They gave it away. They gave Obama everything.
So Obama wants to put in a Supreme Court judge. He said he wants  hes going to be a very negative person to guns because thats the way it is, okay? Believe me, that will be the way it is. And basically they dont have the right to do that.
But I keep saying, "Well, are the Republicans going to fail or are they going to crack? Whats going to happen?" And coming up today, I hear, "Well, there could be a way of Obama pushing it through." Here we go, right? Here we go.
Same thing you heard with Obamacare. Its going to be defeated. Its going to be repealed. Were going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Believe me.
But  I mean, look whats going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. Your deductible is so high. I mean, youve got to see that truck right there? Youve got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.
So, I come up and Im hearing that Obama now who said by the way yesterday, "Donald Trump will not be the president. He will not be." No, its a compliment. Look, hes been perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States. So its a compliment.
But he was all over the place yesterday. Said, "Donald Trump will not be  " I think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right here in South Carolina.

You know, New Hampshire was so amazing. We had a big, big victory in New Hampshire. Amazing people.
And then we come down here and I said, "You know, I think we have an ever bigger lead over here."
And the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. Even this. I know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same kind of thing for your frontrunner and hes a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did well but you had 400 people, 200 people. You have thousands of people here and we just appreciate it, and I wont forget it. Believe me, Im not going to forget it. Im not going to forget it.
So I hear that theyre talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge that does not like the Second Amendment and a judge that  and this is one of many. This is one of many but a judge that doesnt want to do a number on the guns and that doesnt know how important it is.
Were just not going to let it happen. Okay? Its not going happen. And if we elected, we know that. But we have 9 months, 10 months to go. We have to have the Republicans hold fast because Im just hearing these little cracks, saying "Well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get along, maybe." Its not the way its supposed to be.
Now, its possible that theyll have their wish because if they win, theyre going to be having their choice. But if they dont win, were going to start really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe Supreme Court judges. This was not supposed to be one in question. This was a very sad circumstance that happened with  I mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. But now were going to see what happens.
I will only tell you this. We are doing well. We have a really good chance to win. If we can win in South Carolina, were going to go  I mean, we could very well run the table.
I dont know if you saw  I guess a lot of you have seen actually next week in Nevada. Its going to be phenomenal. The relationship there to the people...Bush is 1% in Nevada. This guy  why doesnt he just give up, just go home? Go home. Go home to mom. Got to go home to mommy. You know, Bush is only at 1% in Nevada. A couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. Im at like 40% something  48%. So I think were going to do well.
Then I think we have the SEC. Were going to have the SEC, which is going to be I think amazing.
But really now were starting. New Hampshire could not have been better. They gave us a tremendous send-off. They really started us on our way.
And we did well in Iowa. I mean, some votes were stolen from Ben Carson, which by the way was a disgrace. What Cruz  what this guy Cruz did with Ben Carson was an absolute disgrace. What he did was  he stole. Its theft. And then they come out with a voter violation form, which is a fraud as far as Im concerned. And what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. So were not going to let that stuff happen anymore. I mean, were not going to let it. We will not let it happen. Were all watching. Youre all watching. Keep your eyes wide open.
These politicians  heres a guy, he raises the Bible and yet he tells fibs, he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to Carson and he does other things. Very bad.
So politicians are bad people. Boy, they are bad. Would you believe it?
So were not going to let it happen and were going to get in there...So Saturday. Go out and vote. This is going to be the place thats really going to make it.
And honestly, Ive been watching all the pundits. Now, the bad news is theyre always wrong. They all said Im not running and I ran. Well, how is he going to do? Hes just doing this for fun. Im not doing this for fun. Believe me, I love this location but I know I can be someplace else. Okay? I could be someplace else right now. I could be very happy.
But Im doing it because you know the expression and I see all the hats in the audience  Make America great again. We are going to make America so ... ...
We are going to win again. You know, we dont win very much. Youre very smart, tough people. You like to win. Right? This guy over here. You like to win. And we dont win anymore. We used to win. We dont win anymore. Well, were going to start winning again. Were going to start winning again.
So, Second Amendment protected. Common Core. Were going to end Common Core. Were bringing your education locally. Its going to be fabulous. I dont know if you know or if youve heard me say we have the absolute worst  we spend number one in the world on education. Right? Number one per pupil in the world. There is no second place because were so high, so much  you have China, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have Sweden. You have these countries are the best in terms of education and theyre on the list the best. And the 30th in the top 30  were number 30th. Okay? Were number one in costs.

Thats a little bit like what Im doing. Im the least spent money. You know, Im funding my own campaign. Right? So, I dont have a lot of the people coming to me. You know, the drug companies and all of the  because if you would see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in the United States, a lot of it isnt really waste, fraud, and corruption. Its the fact that people that are running against me and people in the Senate, people in Congress, they have tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign contributions and theyre special interests and they do what those people want. And thats one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is out of whack. The military orders equipment they dont even want and the stuff they do want they dont get because the company that makes that equipment is like, you know, its not politically adept, and companies that really are, they make the equipments we dont want. Its going to all change because Im not getting any money from all of these people. I dont give a damn. I mean, were going to do the right thing. Were going to absolutely do the right thing.
Ill tell you a little story. So the drug companies. We are the largest purchasers of drugs in the world, the United States...which makes a lot of sense I guess. But we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better, not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border, which were going to end. Okay? Were going to build a wall. Yup. Folks, by the way, were going to build a wall and whos going to pay for the wall?
[Audience: "Mexico"]
You better believe it. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion. And these characters come up, these politicians that Im running against, "You dont really think Mexico is going to pay for the wall?" I said, "Absolutely, 100%." They said, "How are you going to get Mexico to pay?" And I dont want to get into it because they wont understand it. I mean, they have no concept of business. They have no  you know, the $150 billion we gave to Iran, these people have no concept.
We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. Okay? The wall is going to cost $12 billion. Maybe less. If I build it, itll be taller, better, and less. Okay?
So you think of this. So you think of this. So they said, "How are you going to possibly do it?"
They make so much money. Plus we give them subsidy. They make so much money from the United States its going to be one of the easiest things.
And I dont know if youve heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of Mexico held a news conference. He said, "We will never ever, ever pay for the wall." And the press called me. They said, "They said they will never pay for the wall." I said, "Who was it?" Calderon. Hes very nice, good guy. I said, "Tell him the following. The wall just got 10 feet higher." I mean it. It got 10 feet higher. Yeah, theyre going to pay for it.
And I get along great with Mexico. The problem is  I mean, they buy apartments. I have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are Hispanics who Im doing great with. We have such an amazing relationship with Hispanics and theyre great people.
The problem is the leaders of Mexico are too smart for our leaders. Theyre too smart. Theyre too cunning.
You look at whats going on. Its unbelievable. The border is a disaster. Its a sieve. People flow over. Its not going to happen anymore, folks. People can come into our country but theyre going to come in legally. Theyre going to come in through a process. Theyre going to come in, theyre going to come in legally.
So with trade, were going to solve the trade problem. I dont know if you saw Carrier air conditioner announced two days ago theyre moving to Mexico. Nabisco. Theyre moving their big plant from Chicago to Mexico. Ford, theyre moving this massive complex  theyre building a $2.5 billion plant and now theyve just announced theyre building it bigger.
Ive been talking about this for two years. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal, they announced theyre building it bigger. In another words, theyre doubling down. You know why? Nobody does anything about it. Im going to do something about it.
So I watched  somebody asked, "What would you do about Carrier?" Because that was a sad case. Somebody used their cell phone and they were telling them, "Youre out of work. Youre out of job. Forget it. Its over. Were moving to Mexico." Are crying. Grown men that have been there for a long time. Really incredible people. And theyre crying and theyre devastated and they lost their job and theyve never had another job and now this plant  this whole thing is moving to Mexico.

And they said, "What would you do?" I said Ill tell you what Im going to do because you know they talk about free trade. Im a free trader. But I say oh if I put a tax on these characters  these idiots. I mean, theyre like stupid. They say "Donald Trump is not a true conservative because he taxes." Its got to be fair stuff, folks. Its got to be fair. Im a conservative person.
Hey, Im the most conservative on the border. Im the most conservative with the military. Nobodys tougher than me. Im the most conservative. We are going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobodys ever going to mess with us, folks. We wont have to use it.
Im the most conservative on taking care of the vets. Our vets are treated horribly. Were going to take care of our  Im the most conservative on Common Core. Were ending Common Core  I told you that  and were moving it locally. And nobody is more conservative and we call toughness but nobody is more conservative on the Second Amendment. So all of these things.
But with Carrier...theyre coming across and theyre going to build a plant and probably get some subsidies from Mexico  probably  weve probably given them subsidies. They probably have the United States giving subsidies to move out of the country. Thats how stupid it is and thats how stupid were running...They said, "What would you do?" I say its very easy. We call them. We say lets have a meeting. Heres the story folks. Youre moving to Mexico. Congratulations. But if you dont stay in the United States youre going to have a problem. But heres what you do it. You want to move to Mexico, build your factory, its going to be wonderful. Hire your people theyre not from the United States. All those people are now looking for jobs. Those are good jobs. You know were hiring a lot of part-timers now...The numbers are totally phony. The 5%  totally phony numbers. So I say heres what were going to do. Very simple. You build your plant in Mexico. Enjoy yourselves. And youre going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell them to the United States? No, youre going to pay a 35% tax on every air conditioner. Its true. Its the only thing you can do.
And you know what? Its the only thing you can do. Theres nothing else. Because otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?
And then you have the devaluation with China. The all-time. Theyre like grand chess masters or grand  I mean these people are the greatest  the greatest in history. Theyre grandmasters of that  devaluation. They devalue their currency.
Japan is doing very well too. Theyre killing Caterpillar. You know, theyre ordering Komatsu tractors now because theyve devalued  look, you take a look at whats happened to the Yen and its very hard. A friend a mine. Hes a big excavator. You all know excavators. I love excavators. This guys a very big one. He buys Caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. He just put in a big order for Komatsu. Not that he wanted to. He said, "Donald, they made it impossible for me not to buy. Theyve devalued the yen to such an extent  Japan  that it made it, I mean, I owe it to my family, to my company, to myself. I have no choice." And he was like depressed. He wanted to buy Caterpillar...
Well China is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what theyre doing is the devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to compete. We cant allow that stuff to happen.
Look, when we send stuff over to China, it doesnt get in. If it does get in, you have to pay a big tax. You know, its not supposed to be that way. You know, its supposed to be free trade. Its supposed to be they come we go, back and forth. They devalued their currency and on top of it, they make it impossible.
I have a friend whos a great manufacturer. He said its virtually impossible to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. He cant get his goods into China. When he does get them in, theres a tax to pay.
I have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he cant get it into China because the tax is so massive. Hes going to sell it now at a big loss. Okay?

And think about Boeing. Okay? Think about Boeing. Boeing is building a plant over here. Boeing just had a big order from China. But China is making them build a massive airline facility. Right? Massive. Like bigger than anything youve seen.
Okay, you feel good about Boeing right now. Tell me in five years. Unless Im president. Youll be fine. Dont worry about it. But tell me in five years youre going to feel good about Boeing because Ill tell you whats happening. They are going to build that plant  theyre building it, its going to be finished soon  theyre going to build that plant, theyre going to devalue the hell out of their currency, and all of a sudden youll be reading a big front page story all over the place that Boeing is going to leave, right, South Carolina, theyre going to make all their planes in China. Because this is what they do. Thats what they do. And our leaders arent smart enough to stop it, okay?
I have Carl Icahn endorse me. Great businessman, very rich guy, very, very successful. If I told Carl, Carl, watch over China trade, were going to be in great shape.
We have right now people that have no concept of what theyre doing. They have no concept of what theyre doing. Theyre political hacks. Thats what they are. Theyre political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating with these people China. And again, China likewise, I get along great with China. Largest bank in the world my tenant. They buy condos for tens of millions of dollars. I have the Bank of America building in California. I own a big chunk of that. I got that through China through a very complex set of transactions but through China.
I mean, I think China is terrific. Im not angry at China. Im angry at our leaders for not being able to compete with China. Im not angry.
So were going to get things changed around. Were going to use our best people. Were going to be so smart, and were going to start winning again. Were going to have strong borders. Were going to have strong military. Were going to take care of our vets. Were going to have such great trade deals. Were going to win again. Were going to win again. Were going to win so much.
And you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of ISIS and were going to get rid of them fast.
I was against the war in Iraq from the beginning. I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldnt have done it. We did it. Then Obama got out the wrong way. We shouldnt have done Iraq. We did it. It destabilized the Middle East. Exactly. If you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, I said its going to totally destabilize the Middle East because you had Iran and Iraq and they were the same militarily. Theyd fight, fight, fight. Boom. Then theyd rest. Then theyd fight, fight, fight for years and years and years. We decapitated Iraq and now Iran is taking over. Not only do they get the $150 billion. Maybe the worst transaction Ive ever seen negotiated. No, no, dont buy the famous Obama administration.
The worst, one of the dumbest deals Ive ever seen. I mean, we get nothing. We get nothing.
We should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. Not now. We should have gotten them years ago.
But if you look at whats going on and now on top of that we gave them Iraq because Iran is now taking over Iraq. Its just taking them over.

So heres what we did. We spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who we all love all over the place. Theyre the best people. Most incredible. Theyre tougher than all of us these people. I mean, what theyve gone through. So the wounded warriors all over the place. You know what we have? We have nothing. We have nothing. We have absolutely nothing. So heres what were going to do. Were going to change things around. Were going to be smart. And we have  well do what we have to do in terms of ISIS and all. But we have to start rebuilding our country.
We have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. Not going to happen anymore.
Were going to have a strong military. But were going to have to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.
I mean, our country is like a third world country. You go over to Qatar, you go over to some of these places in the Middle East. You go to China. You see the airports. You see the bridges. They have bridges that are so incredible youve never seen anything like it. They have railroad trains that go 350 miles an hour and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.
Weve become like a third world nation because were fighting everybody elses battles. And remember this, we are like the policemen of the world but we dont get paid anything. We protect Germany. We protect Japan. Do you know that in Japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with Japan, if we get attacked they dont have to do anything. If they get attacked, we have World War III, we have to protect them. Okay? I mean, who makes these deals?
We protect as an example South Korea, who have a maniac right next to them. Right? But we protect South Korea. So every time we order televisions, they come from South Korea, they make a fortune. We protect South Korea. Let me tell you something. Why arent they paying? They pay peanuts for what we do.
Every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, our soldiers get ready. We have 28,000 soldiers at the border.
So we take care of the world. We dont get it.
Saudi Arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. And we rent space there so we can help them. We rent military bases. We pay rent. And yet without us they wouldnt last for two weeks. Theyd be gone.
So were going to change all that stuff folks. I mean, I want to be good. We want to be fair. We want to have heart. And were not going to let these Syrian folks in that we dont know who they are. We dont know where they come from. Theyre not coming into this country. Theyre not coming in.
I mean, there are a lot of them. I dont know if you know it. You have a lot of them moving into South Carolina. I dont know. Have you heard this? And you ought to tell your governor dont let them move to South Carolina. You dont want them in South Carolina.
And I know theyll say, "Well, we have nothing to do. Were state government." Let me tell you something. If a governor from a state didnt want to have them, I dont care what it says, you dont have to have them...
We want to help them with safe zones. We want to get the Gulf States to pay. I dont want to pay. We owe $19 trillion. We owe enough. We can lead it but let the Gulf States  they have so much money they dont know what to do with it. Let them build safe zones.
Look at whats happening in Germany. Its a mess. Look at Sweden. Look at Brussels. I mean, Brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it was incredible.
So when I call for moratoriums and I call for this, first I get hit with tremendous heat. Right? Then everybody starts to say, "You know, hes right."
Same thing  on June 16th, I announced weve got to stop illegal immigration. The heat I took was unbelievable. Three, four weeks later theyre all saying, you know, Trump is right. Then Kate killed in San Francisco, beautiful Kate, by an illegal immigrant. You have Jamiel in Los Angeles killed. Incredible guy. Young man. The fathers a friend of mine  a great guy. You had the veteran  65-year-old woman  a veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in Los Angeles by an illegal immigrant. Weve got to stop it folks. Weve got to stop it. Weve got to be smart. Weve got to be a country again. Weve got to be a country again.
So I just want to thank  this endorsement meant so much to me from these two guys and from the whole community. I just want to say get out and vote. Were going to do something youre going to be so happy with. Were going to win so much and were going to make America great again. Thats what we want to do. Make America great again. So Saturday, get out and vote. Thank you! We love you all. Thank you very much! Thank you. Thank you very much folks.

I dont really think  look, what happened is we had 17 candidates originally. I was expected to come in like anywhere maybe 10, 11, 12, 13. I ended up coming in second. Didnt devote tremendous time to it. Didnt devote tremendous money to it.
In fact, I guess in terms of money per vote, Im about at the bottom, meaning the most efficient.
I came in second. I came into strong second. Third, I think, was quite a bit away  I think 2,500 or something  close to 3,000 votes away. Theres a big difference between second and third.
I think we did really well. You know, as far as thats concerned.
I think the press  some of the press said I did fantastically well. Some of the press doesnt want to give it credit.
I think we did very well. I didnt expect to do so well. I guess what did happen is one poll came out and said Im 4 or 5 points ahead and that maybe build up a false expectation for some people.
But it had taken me back to June 16th. I was told "Dont even go to Iowa. Start right here in New Hampshire. Just dont waste your  "
...Im going to Iowa. I went. I bonded with the people, bonded with evangelicals. We did really fantastically and came very close to winning. I mean, we came very close to winning. We came in second place.
So I am very happy with what happened in Iowa. You know, you had 17 people and I was second. Now, I guess you have 11 people and I was second. And I think we did a very good job.

No, I dont think I feel any pressure. I mean, were going to just do what I have to do. And if it works out, thats great. And if it doesnt, thats okay too because you know Im here to do one thing  the theme  make America great again. Im going to do it.
And I think we did very well  I think we did really well in just about everything weve done running for office. I think we have a very good result yesterday. It could have been a little bit better. It could have been one notch better.
But its interesting all of these governors and senators that you have way down the list, theyre at 1%, 2%, you know, in terms of what happened  what just happened  theyre at 1%, theyre at 2%, theyre 3%. Nobody ever talks about them. And Im at 24% or 25%, and they say, "Oh, couldnt you have done better?"
You know, I think the result was quite good especially for the amount of time I spent and for the amount of money I spent.

Well, I think I have  I think it fits me better, probably suits me better. Ive done very well in New Hampshire. Ive been here a lot more. I have very good relationships with the people of New Hampshire.
But Ive had very good relationships with pretty much everybody.

I really dont. I really dont see that happening. I dont know whats going to happen. You dont  nobody does. Well see what  youll have many, many people that arent doing very well. I am doing very well. But you have many, many people that are here, that are well-known politicians  theyre governors and theyre senators  but theyre not doing very well. And they just came back from a, you know, very major defeat yesterday. And mine wasnt.
...You know, its very interesting. If you look at the numbers from yesterday, I got the highest number in history outside the one number  in the history of the primary.

...Also, I guess they had 185,000 people, which is 45,000 or 50,000 people more than they ever had.

No, I mean, I think well get a lot of Sanderss voters. You know, theyre very much into the trade world and Im the best on trade. He mentions it but I dont think hes going to be capable of doing anything about it.
No, I think were going to do really well here. I look forward to it.

We have a lot of events scheduled, yes.

Well, we do. We have one commitment long-term for Arkansas actually where were going to have about 10,000 people. But were going to be back and forth very quickly. Were going to have a lot of events scheduled, yes.

Well, I just think, you know, Im just happy with the way were doing. You know, weve bonded with the people whether its there or here. I mean, theres just a big bonding process going on.
If you look at South Carolina, its the same thing. I mean, were doing really well there. But weve devoted much more time here and South Carolina 

Its not a question of learning. I mean, I just want to continue to do well...Our theme  the theme is so important. Its just make America great again. Thats what were going to do. Thats what were going to do. Not really a question of learning.

Well, if you look at the second place, people didnt talk about my second place. They didnt talk about it as positively as they should have. And yet, with Marco who was more than 2,000 votes behind me  thats a lot of votes by the way  they said, "Oh, hes surging. Hes surging."
So, I dont know why is the third place person doing well and the second place person, who by the way has never run  Scott was mentioning before  "One of the amazing things about you, youve never run for office before. Its incredible how you did."

My brands doing great. Yeah.

No, I think just work. Were going to work very hard and we have a lot of meetings, a lot of talks, a lot of speeches. Were going to be meeting with a lot of people and I think were going to do very well.

Well, well be doing some of that but we also have some very big events planned like tonight, I think they have 4,000 or 5,000 people and other people were here yesterday and they had 200 people. Same venue, same everything. They had 200 people.
So we have  theres a good bonding going on.

Well, I enjoyed it.

I have unlimited, I have unlimited  you know, its funny. When I look at the various people, they said so and so has $20 million. I have unlimited. Thats not the thing.
The only  you know, Im a businessperson. I want to spend wisely. And Im probably $40 million under budget because of the fact that frankly I havent had to spend very much although I guess we just did a recent filing and I would be probably having spent now maybe $14 million, $15 million.
But Im self-funding. And I must tell you, I dont know that enough people appreciate it. Im self-funding anyway whether they appreciate it or not. So I wont be influenced by the lobbies and you know et cetera, et cetera.
But I dont know  I was talking to Scott about this before  I dont know its really appreciated by the voters. Im the only one on both sides thats self funding. Im putting up my own money. And I dont know that the voters appreciate it. When they go into vote, I dont think they say "Im going to vote for Trump because hes self-funding and hes not going to be influenced by lobbies and special interests et cetera."

Im going to tell them and I tell them. But sometimes they like it but I dont think its something they vote for, which is a shame because its actually a very big thing. You understand that. Its a very big thing. Its a very big element if you could have somebody that can actually self-fund and not be influenced by bad decisions...or looking for themselves or looking for the company or country they represent. Thats a real positive...
I just dont know whether or not the voters appreciate it.

Ive learned that theyre great people. I really, I thought the people in Iowa were fantastic...You know, obviously I was second. I had the largest vote getting in the history of a Republican primary except for one and I brought many of those extra people in. And they also had as you know the largest turnout in the history of Republican primaries in terms of Iowa by far  not even close. I think it was like 50,000 or 60,000 more than theyve ever had before. So I just  I learned that they are terrific people in Iowa.

Yeah, I look forward to it.

...No, I dont think so. I have a very good relationship with Marco. I like him... I dont see that necessarily.

Youre talking about Iowa? Well, that could have been with the debate. I think it could have been the debate. I think some people were disappointed that I didnt go in the debate.
If I had to do it again, I would have done the exact same thing. And the reason is  you know why? Because I raised $6 million for the vets in one hour.
So if I took a second place instead of a first place and could give the vets $6 million, Ill do that all day long.

Well, were going to be spending money. Were going to be spending money  were going to be spending a lot of money. Well be spending money on ads and well be spending money on the ground game.

I cant help it, honey, whether Im celebrity. I mean, this is me.

Look, I think most people say I did a great job in Iowa. I came in second. I spent far less than anybody else. And had I known that I was going to be liked as much as I am in Iowa and people did like me  you will understand that  I would have maybe spent a little bit more and I would have been there a little bit more and maybe I would have won it. But, you know, Im very happy with it. I have 7 delegates right at the top.
You look at other people in all fairness  senators, governors  theyre, you know, theyre way down.
When I have 25% or 26% and they have 1% but you people dont mention that.

But the one thing is you people dont mention that. You dont mention all the other names.
Now, you mention the person, Marco, good guy. But he came in third. And they make it sound like he had a victory and I didnt. But I came in second.
...I started off on 17th. I was 17th. When I first started, I had nothing. And then I inched my way up  went pretty rapidly actually. And now Im leading everything and I did okay in Iowa. Pretty good in Iowa.

Well, I think were going to have great success here. I think its a much different kind of a process. This isnt a caucusing process. This is a much different  this is a normal voting process. The Iowa is a much different kind of a thing.

Well, he [referring to Ted Cruz] insulted me. I mean, he started with the insults, as you know. And he insulted Ben Carson by doing what he did to Ben Carson. That was a disgrace. And he insulted the people of Iowa by doing a voter violation form that nobodys ever seen before which was disgraceful. No, no, hes a man of insult.

No, Im going. I have thousands of people going. No, but we dont have that invite. I like Mike Huckabee but no, I dont think hes even going to be there.

I did. I did. No, I like him. Well, hes left the race so I feel pretty good about that. Hes a good man.

Well, were adding some and were adding them pretty rapidly.

...People in your world are saying they possibly could. So I dont really see one or two. I see there could be a number.

Id love to finish first. You know, again it would still not be horrible because youre competing against a lot of very talented people that have been politicians all their lives. I have been a politician for 6 months.
No, but Id love to finish first.

Wouldnt horrible but you know it wouldnt be the worst thing in the world. I could think of worse things. But Id like to finish first. I think we will finish first. Id like to finish first.

...Just so you understand. I am totally self-funding my campaign other than small donations because people send in small donations for $10, $15, $20...

No, no, thats merchandise sales. Thats a lot of merchandise sales.

Its a small amount of money compared to what I put in.

Its very hard when somebody sends you a check for $17.50 and $9 and $200, very hard to send that back.

I am. And I always make the reference. I always make a reference to that and I do it every time.

Well, hes [referring to Scott Brown] somebody that I respect, always liked. And hes very, very respected throughout the country but hes very respected here. And everybody wanted his endorsement and Im very honored that hes giving it to me and hes going to give it to me on the stage.

That happens with endorsements. No, that happens with endorsement. Its pretty common with endorsements.

...A poll came out a few days before that said I was about 5 points so maybe there was a tinge.
And again, it may have been the debate, which would have set records if I did it. So I would have liked that. But the fact is it could have been the debate. Maybe it is. Maybe it isnt. But I would have done it exactly the same way because I raised, Scott, we raised in one hour, I raised $6 million for the vets. And I would never, ever give that up to go between first and second in Iowa. Wouldnt be worth it.

I think her email situation is very serious. I have a feeling shes being protected by the Democrats because it just looks to me to be more serious than anybody that Ive seen including Gen. Petraeus.
If you watch and study and read about various lawyers  you know, thats what they do  they really feel shes in grave danger and what shes done is against the law not just against rules. Its against the law. I just dont know whats going to happen because I dont know whether or not the Democrats are going to protect her.

I never saw a race where theyre flipping coins. I mean, theyre flipping coins. What kind of a race is that? Its ridiculous. I thought it was terrible. I mean, you call it a tie. But to flip coins, they say "Okay, youre going to get this district. Were going to flip a coin."

I dont know. I cant tell you yet. I think hes [referring to Ted Cruz] certainly was dirty what he did to Ben Carson was terrible. He did the voter violation form. I thought that was terrible. Actually, I thought it was terrible. And when they said that Ben Carson was out of the race and come vote for him, I thought that was terrible.
Okay?
Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.

Wow, what a crowd. Thank you very much everybody. Such an honor. With the snow coming down and its a little cold outside and you have hundreds of people still outside trying to get in. But you know, we wont wait. Well go ahead. Right?
Well go ahead.
First of all, congratulations to the Iowa State basketball team. You had a  what was that all about? I turned on the game. I said, "Wow, this shouldnt be that good of a game." And at the end of the game, I said, "Who won?" Yes? That was great and its a great achievement.
I also want to pay my respects to Ben Carson. They had a really bad accident. Some of his staffers were hurt really bad. So I just want to pay my respects to Ben. Hes a good guy  a really good guy  and his staffers and hopefully they get better. Say a prayer for them. Okay?
Weve had an amazing time today. Weve been all over Iowa and were going to be here tomorrow. Were going to be here so much youre going to get so sick of me. Youre going to say, "Please, tell him to get out of here. Tell him to leave. Tell him to go."
But weve had an incredible time.
And you know it started really  weve had really a pretty good week. The debate last week  everybody watched the debate. And who knew about these debates? I didnt know anything about the debates. And its been fun and its been interesting. And Ive been treated semi-fairly by the moderators. Not 100%. Some have been very fair actually, and some have been not so fair.
And you know, a lot of the press hasnt been very fair.
Boy, look at the press back there. They must think theres a big event going happen today. Wow, thats a lot of them  its like the Academy Awards.
But weve had an amazing  its been an amazing experience and it started really on June 16th when we came down the escalator. We came down that escalator and it was  I said, "Lets go" to my wife, whos been so supportive and so wonderful. I said, "Lets go. Were going to make America great again. Thats what were going to do."
And you know, its hard to do this because when you think of it Ive never done it before. Ive never been a politician. Thank goodness but Ive never been a politician. Ive always done jobs and put a lot of people to work. Tens of thousands of people over the years.
And you know, I have thousands of Hispanics that love me. The Nevada poll just came out where Im leading with Hispanics, which I knew, I knew.
And we came out at that particular opening when I opened and said Im going to run for president I gave up a lot. You know, gave up a lot of different things including telling our friends at NBC no more Apprentice. Thats hard to do. You have a top show and you say, "Im not doing it anymore. Im sorry." They wanted to do it so badly.
And Steve Burke, whos a fantastic executive, came up to my office and said "Come on, Donald. Come on. Do it. Youre not going to run. Do it. Do it." I said, "Steve, Im going to run." I was pretty sure. You know, that was about two months before. I was pretty sure. It really is a tough thing to do.
You know, all my life Ive heard "If youre a very successful person, youll never run for president. Youll never really run for politics. But youll never ever run for president."
And I built a great company and its a tremendous number. You saw the filings. The press was going to look so closely. It was like D-Day when we put those papers in.
You know, first thing I did I announced. They said, "Oh, hes actually going to do it" because most of them said "Hell never do it."
Then when I signed...thats when you sign your life away. And I signed that. They said, "Whoa! He signed that. Well, hell never file his financials because maybe hes not as rich as everybody thinks."

And I filed the financials and they saw an unbelievable  you didnt hear a thing about it. Oh boy, were they looking. I mean, were they looking. And almost 100 pages. The biggest report ever filed with the FEC in terms of that. And it showed a company thats a phenomenal company with some of the great assets, very little debt, tremendous cash flow. You know, the way its supposed to be. And its great.
And the reason I tell you that is because that is the kind of thinking we need now in the United States. We need that kind of thinking. We need that  whatever it is. We need a mentality thats going to  you know, were at $19 trillion in debt. Its going to be up to $21 trillion. You saw that horrible budget. Horrible, horrible budget that was approved two weeks ago and thats going to lift it.
And so we went along and a lot of things have happened and then the polls came out which I love and new ones came out today and Ill tell you right now. You know, now that were at it. And they came out some brand new ones  some beauties. And ones coming out  I guess a big ones coming out. I dont know exactly what it is but its got to be pretty good because I see the response.
I mean, even this with all the people still trying to come into this building. Somebody said its a barn. This is a very nice barn actually. But with all of the people still trying to come in, you see what it is.
And we do have something special in a couple of minutes. To me, its really special because its a person that I think is a spectacular person. So its very special to me.
But then the polls came out and some of them  as an example  national polls 38% for Trump, 20% for second. I wouldnt even names. Right? I wont even mention names. Im going to be non-confrontational today for a change.
21% for the second. 11%. And then theyre all down. Some of them are actually at 0% and 1%. I dont know.
Jeb  well, you know, Jebs got one problem. He loves Common Core, meaning he wants your kids educated from Washington, which is immediately no good.
And his second problem is hes very weak on illegal immigration. Remember, he said they come as an act of love. I said, "What? They come as an act of love?"
So I think those are two very bad points frankly.

...So South Carolina just came out and thats 32% for Trump, 18% for second, 11% for third. Great.
Florida leading by a lot  31%, 19%, 13%, and then all down in the dumps.
Georgia just came out. I have 33%.
Yeah, dont forget thats 33%. Hard to believe. Thats with 14 people, 15 people. I dont know when they took it but it was recent. 33%.
Connecticut  now, Tom Brady loves me and thats sort of like, you know, and I love Tom Brady by the way. 35% to 18% to 9% to 2%. You know, to nothing.
Maryland just came out. Maryland  great place  32% to 15% to 11% to 9% and then you know they sort of phase out.
You ever hear of a place called Iowa? Oh, I love this. Were doing actually great. First of all, I have to tell you. You know, they never report it. Even CNN doesnt report it. CNN does a poll, probably spent millions, they never report their poll.
The CNN poll was 33% for Trump, 20% for Chris. Nobody talks about it. Nobody talks about it. They dont talk about it. They talk about  CNN is reporting other peoples polls. So, I call up. I say, "Wait a minute. Youre CNN. You spent a fortune on polls and you dont report your own polls because Im winning by a lot." And they have no excuse but they keep reporting other polls. But were doing well. I think were doing a lot better than anyone knows.
Gravis just came out  34% for Trump, 28% for Cruz. PPP 28% for Trump, 26% for Cruz. In other words, its a little close here. Quinnipiac poll  very respected 31% for Trump, 29% for Cruz. And then again CNN 33% to 20%.
So were  I think were doing good. I think were actually doing better than the polls.
Now, I could do this. I could say, "Well, I just want to do well in Iowa." I want to win Iowa, folks. Because look, I love the people. The evangelicals have been phenomenal. Im doing great with the evangelicals but nationwide Im winning with evangelical  I dont know if you know that  by a lot nationwide.
With Iowa, Im doing really well with the evangelicals. Were doing really well with the Tea Party. Were doing well  I mean, you hear the numbers. I mean, these are the numbers.
But I actually think were doing even better than the polls. And you know, theres the thing that a lot of people said, you know, they call up, "Are you going to vote for Trump? Hes got very, very tough immigration policies. He wants to destroy Obamacare and replace it with something a lot better." Im going to do that. Okay?
But you know, a lot of people, theyll pick up the phone and theyll hear different things and theyll say, "Uh, no Ill vote for  " and then theyd get in the booth and they say, "Trump is my man." There are a lot of people saying that were going to do a lot better. But well see because Feb. 1st you have to get to caucus, you have to go out. Youve got to do it. Otherwise, weve all wasted our time.
You know, one of the groups in Maine and it was like incredible. We were in different places up in New England recently and New Hampshire was amazing. And the people are standing there. It was so cold. There was one little group of  despite global warming  you know, you hear about "It was so cold." It was windchill below zero. And people were standing outside for hours trying to get in.
And then you hear the announcers. "Well, will they show up to vote?" And I dont know much but I say like if people are going to stand out for four hours in the cold or the heat because believe me they stood out in the heat during the summer and during the fall like you wouldnt believe in Tennessee, in Texas where we had 21,000 people, no matter where we go we have these big crowds but theyll stand for hours and hours to get in. Why arent they going to go and vote? Or in your case caucus? Why arent they going to go and vote? Its sort of an amazing thing. So we think theyre going to really be  why would somebody wait for hours for four hours and not going to take two minutes to vote?

Now, yours is a little more complicated because the caucus system is a little bit different. Its a very interesting system. But it is different.
Heres what I have to say about Iowa. Its very important.
So you know theres a movement to move Iowa to the back of the pack. Okay? You know that. Youll still see me but you wont see other people. Believe me. Im loyal. To a fault Im loyal.
But youre going to see. I give you my word. I win; theyre not touching Iowa. This is an amazing tradition. No, seriously. This is an amazing tradition. Theyre not moving Iowa back.
And theyre not moving New Hampshire either because theyre talking about Iowa, New Hampshire. Theyre not touching New Hampshire.
So, were going to just keep it the way it is. It really is. Its an amazing. First of all, youre amazing people. But all over the country its a movement all over the country. The people are incredible. They want to make America great again. Theyre going to do something thats special.
And you know we used to talk silent majority? I say its the noisy majority because its actually a noisy majority. Its not a silent majority.
But people are fed up.
So I started on June 16th and we did well. Practically from the beginning we went up. And if you remember, we started at nothing. You know, we started at nothing because nobody believed I was going to [run]. Even when they  my wife said, "You know if you run, youre going to win." I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "People dont believe youre going to run." At the polls. I was getting these little polls. I felt like some of these guys now that are senators and governors; they get these little polls.
...Jeb again, right? Boy, hes taking a lot of abuse. You know? I told him "You know what? You should use the name Bush. Whats wrong? Use the name Bush. I mean, maybe its not working but its better than Jeb right?" You know, I really do. Get rid of the exclamation point and just put Jeb Bush. Its your name. Dont be ashamed of your name.
So anyways, I wish him the best.
But, you know, I started and I started at like 2% or 3% and then it went to 6% and then it went to 9%. And each time the pundits  these real geniuses back here  some of them are sitting back here  these real geniuses like George Will with the little glasses  take away the glasses. He looks like a dumb guy, Im telling you.
But each time these geniuses would say, "Well, hes reached his plateau. Hes plateaued" at 6%, right? Then it goes to 11%. "Well, you know, this is surprising but hes reached his plateau." And then it goes to 18%. And then it went to 22%, 24%, 28%, then it went to 32%. Then it went actually 42% in the Gravis poll and in Reuters we got to 42% and even a little above that. And then all of a sudden you didnt hear so much about the plateau.
I want to plateau at 42%. You know, 42% with like 14 people thats pretty good.
But they kept saying, "Hes plateaued. Thats all hell get. Hes got these followers."
We have the smartest followers there are. Number one, we have the smartest. And the hardest working followers. We have people that love the country more than anybody and they want to take back whats happened because our country is going to hell.
We can be nice about it. We can say it nice and soft. Our country is going to hell.
When you look at this crazy Iran deal where were paying $150 billion and they give us the five back but they dont know where the fifth is and you understand what that means. Thats not a good sign. But they give us five people but they get seven and they get 14 off the Interpol. These are bad dudes. They get 14 plus seven so theyre getting 21 people. And they have the right to do whatever they want from an enterprise standpoint. Right to do oil. Right to do whatever they want.

But what do they also get out of that deal? First of all, theyre going to get nuclear. They dont have to develop nuclear missiles. They can buy them. For the kind of money we gave them, theyre going to buy them. Why are they going to develop?
Remember the deal? 24 days. They have 24 days for inspection period. They also have self-inspection. Right? But we paid $150 billion. And I always say, "Wow. What a great  the Persians are great negotiators." I say what a great deal that is.
...Two weeks ago I started. I said, "Wait a minute. Thats not a good deal compared to the other deal." They took over Iraq. We gave them Iraq. We knocked the hell out of Iraq. We decimated their armed forces. And you know, for years, they would fight. For many, many years, for decades theyd fight, fight, fight. Nobody would win. Fight. Theyd rest. Then theyd go back to fight.
And now, we gave them the second largest oil reserves in the world, which is Iraq. We gave it to them. Now, theyre going into Yemen. And if you look at Yemen, take a look. Theyre going to get Syria. Theyre going to get Yemen.
Unless, you know, trust me a lot of good things are going to happen if I get in. But lets just sort of leave it the way it is.
They get Syria. They get Yemen. Now, they didnt want Yemen. But did you ever see the border between Yemen and Saudi Arabia? They want Saudi Arabia.
So, what are they going to have? Theyre going to have Iraq. Theyre going to have Iran. Theyre going to have Iraq. Theyre going to have Yemen. Theyre going to have Syria. Theyre going to have everything. Theyre going to be a monster. Weve created this. We have stupid leadership. Really stupid leadership.
So when I started, I said we have to do something about it. Its not something I wanted to do. Its something we have to do.
Because Im representing you. Im not taking any money. Im not, you know, like some of these guys where theyre getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know and theyre nice people and some are very bad people but they have no interest in the country. They have interests in their company or they have interests in countries theyre representing.
And these people and these politicians are going to do exactly as theyre told by their lobbyists, their special interests, and their donors.
Me, Im going to do the right thing.
And I always tell the story. When Ford moves to Mexico, Im going to talk them out of it. When Nabisco moves its plant from Chicago to Mexico, Im going to talk them out of it. Believe me. Its going to be easy. Its going to be easy.
So, I started and I talked about the border. Very strong on immigration and illegal immigration. Took a lot of heat. But you wouldnt even be talking about that subject if I didnt bring it up.
And I talked about again I talked about ISIS and I talked about. But what really happened is after Paris we had 130 people killed.
And by the way, I told you Common Core is dead and Second Amendment is right this way. Were going to protect the Second Amendment. Were going to protect the guns. Were going to protect your guns.
You know, if in Paris and if in Los Angeles, we had the two maniacs that were married. She came on a fiancee permit...You know, wonderful fiancee. She was totally radicalized. Maybe radicalized him. Maybe he was already that way. But weve got to start thinking. We have to start using our head. Bad stuff is happening. We have to find out whats going on.
We have a president who wont even talk about the term. If you think, he wont even mention anything to do with what we all know is going on. And you cant solve the problem if you dont talk about it. You have to talk about it.
So, very, very strongly we started talking about that. And then after Paris  and by the way, if we had a couple of you and you and you and you, if we had three or four people in that room in Paris as an example where they have the toughest gun laws like in the world. You cant have a gun unless youre bad guy, you bought a gun. And they walked in just said "Boom! Boom! Boom! You, move over. Boom!" Killed 130, more to follow because there are people that are so badly wounded.
But if we had a couple of  few of the people that I pointed out  I could plenty in this audience, believe me. But if they had guns on their waist, if they had guns around their ankle where the bullets went the opposite direction, it would have been a whole different story, folks. Itd be a whole different story.

So very, very big on the Second Amendment. But what happened is all of a sudden after Paris and to an extent, to a pretty big extent in California, what happened is these polls started coming in where everybody liked Trump even more. I went up 11 points. I dont want to do it for that reason.
But it went up because people want strength just like having the family of John Wayne, who was great. I love John Wayne. From Iowa. But out of nowhere I got the most beautiful letter from his daughter, who you just met, whos an incredible woman, and she said, "Wed like to endorse you."
John Wayne was a strong guy. We need strength. We need strength in this country because were withering away with political correctness nonsense. Okay? Nonsense.
I mean, if you think of it, you cant say "Merry Christmas" anymore. Were going to say "Merry Christmas" again. You go into these department stores. They dont have any Christmas displays. They dont have the sign "Merry Christmas". Even people that arent Christian are saying "Merry Christmas. We love Christmas. Let us say Merry Christmas, Happy Holidays." But people like to see it. And stores dont put it up anymore. Were withering away. Were going in the wrong direction.
So I said were going to do this and I had no idea it was going to work this way. I figured Id be in the pack and maybe like a race horse. You know, just at the end you can sort of inch it out. I had no idea to have 21 point leads nationally. Were up by so much. And you know, I want to keep it that way. I want to keep it that way.
When you think  and just one thing before I introduce our incredible person, our incredible guest. But one thing  Ive spent to this point almost nothing and Im in first place by a lot. I tell this story. Im not bragging about spending. Im just saying Im telling the story. I have spent  theyll tell you  almost nothing and Im in first place by some polls have me 21 points. Thats a lot. Okay? You know some people have 2%. I have a lead of 20%. But Im in first place by a lot.
Jeb has spent now $77 million. Think of it.
And you know the reason I bring him up  I wouldnt even bring him up  but he spends a fortune on ads against me. You people have all seen it before
I got along with everybody. I contributed to everybody. I was a world class businessman. Now Im a politician, which Id hate to tell you. But you go with everybody. You want to love everybody. You want them all to love you unless youre stupid. But you want everybody to love you.
Everybody knows this story. But so much money has been spent on me. But he spent $79 million. I spend nothing. Im in first by a lot. Hes down towards the bottom of the pack.
And I said to myself, "Its amazing. Wouldnt that be great if this were the country doing this?"
As an example, education. Were number 28 in the world. We have third world countries that are ahead of us. Education is very important to me.
World, I mean, countries that you wouldnt believe are ahead of us. You wouldnt believe if you heard the names of some of these countries. So were 28. But were number one in spending per pupil by far.
Wouldnt it be nice if you had like this election process where we spent the least but we had the best education? You know?
So Sweden and Norway and China and others are the best. Were nowhere near them and yet we spend far more per pupil. So were going to change that and I told you were going to get it localized but were going to change that. Watch, you just watch...
I will tell you this: You cant educate your children through bureaucrats in Washington. And thats what happens with Common Core.
When the parents take over and I really mean this because Ive seen it. When the parents surround those schools and they love those kids and they love those pupils and even when their kids graduate, they are committed to those schools, theyre committed to education. You can do so much better in Iowa than they can possibly do telling you what to do in Washington.
And not all of them but most of them are just interested in "Wheres my check? How much do I get? Lets make the process complicated."
And some of the things that your kids are made to study are an outrage. Okay? So were going to bring that back locally and its going to be great.
So what happened essentially is I started looking and all of a sudden things changed. And people are now looking. They know Ill do great with China. Im going to do great with Japan. Im going to do great with Mexico, whos killing us in trade and killing us also at the border.
We will build a wall and you know whos going to pay for the wall  Mexico. Theyre going to pay for it because they make a fortune and all of those things.
But now, were really focused on security and Im honored because I will tell you that all of polls and the CNN polls where said in particular that Trump is just not by a little bit but by many, many percentage points winning on ISIS, winning on the military, winning with the vets. Were going to take care of our vets big league, by the way. Big league. Big league. And were going to really take care of our military. Its going to be big and strong and powerful and nobodys going to mess with us and its the cheapest thing we can do, Ill tell you that right now.
So its been a real focus.
I just want to now say just a couple of words about a very special person. This is a person who Ive known for a long time, who Ive respected for so long. An incredible husband. An incredible family. And somebody that when I heard that she was going to endorse me, I was so honored. You have no idea how honored.
And I would like to bring up if I might Gov. Sarah Palin. Special, special person. Thank you.


(AUDIENCE MEMBERS SHOUTING)

 let me just tell you  let me just tell you a little secret. Its the cheapest thing we can do. Were never going to have to use it. I dont think were going to have to use it. Dont forget they talk about my tone. I remember when Jeb and Hillary the same day  Mr. Trumps tone is not nice. Theyre chopping off Christians heads in Syria and other places and they want me to have a nice tone. Im supposed to be, oh, isnt life wonderful, OK?

Look, weve got to be tough, weve got to be smart, weve got to have heart too. Weve got to have heart, weve got to take care of people. Weve got to fix our health care program. This Obamacare is a disaster. You people know.

You people know. Obamacare is a total catastrophe. Its going to be repealed and replaced. It will die in 17 anyway. I dont know if you heard whats happening. But its so bad, all the people that they didnt think were signing up are signing up.

And the other people that are really paying for it are not signing up. And your rates are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent. Your deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by a tractor, youre never going to be able to use your deductible. Youre never going to be able to use it. So Obamacare is a disaster. We are going to repeal it, we are going to replace it.

There are so many great things we can do on health care. So many good things.

0

Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
We start by paying our great respects to Pearl Harbor.
We dont want that stuff. We dont want World Trade Centers. We dont want that ever happen to us again. Its not going to happen to us again.
So I want to thank everybody for being here. Its a great honor.
They have thousands of people outside and sometimes theyll say "Would you like to wait about an hour until they all come in?" But we cant get them in anyways so what difference there. We all got lucky. Were together tonight. Thank you.
So we have a lot of big news today. To me, very big was CNN just came out with a new poll about an hour ago and Iowa  great, great state  and in Iowa, Trump 33%. Beating everybody by a lot. You have Cruz at 20% and Carson at 16% and going down and Rubio at 11% and Bush at 4%. But its Trump at 33%. It just came out. Its Iowa  we love Iowa.
By the way, great ship named after Iowa too. Ive been on that one too. A really great one.
The other big poll that came out just two days ago was the national poll. Trump 36% and then I wont even mention the other numbers because theyre so low.
You know, when you have so many people running  we had 17 and then they started to drop. Ding. Bing. I love it. I love it. And youll be losing a lot over the next little while. I would imagine. I dont know. When somebodys down at zero I would think that eventually theyll drop out. The only difference is theres nothing to pick up if there is zero. What do you pick up? So anyways youll be seeing that.
One of the things I think thats so important because to me very important in the same poll, which is the big national CNN poll, on the economy  so important  Trump 55%. Everyone else nothing.
On the budget  Im really good at these things  economy, budgets. I sort of expected this. On the budget, Trump  this is with 15 people remaining  Trump 51%. Everyone else bing.
Oh, heres one that I started and I took a lot of heat. I took a lot of heat. Sort of like the one were talking about today. I guess youve heard a little bit about it. But Ive taken a lot of heat on this one. Illegal immigration. Now, had I not brought that up in Trump Tower in June when I announced that I was going to run for president, which takes courage to run for president, believe me.
You know, all of my life, Ive heard that if youre a successful person, especially if you have very success  youve done a lot of things, a lot of deals, a lot of everything, you cant run for president.
And yet, thats the kind of mindset and thinking this country needs.
Were being run by people that dont know what theyre doing. Very sad.
On illegal immigration, Trump 48%. Thats with 15 people. Everyone else, no good.
On a thing called ISISoh, dont worry. Well have plenty  well talk a lot about ISIS. Can you believe it?
Here we have generals. They go on television and talk. They do all talk. You people  a lot of military people here. Whos military here? All right, I love you.
By the way, speaking of it, were going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so great, nobodys ever going to mess with us again. Nobody. Theyre never going to mess with us.

You know in many ways, its the cheapest thing we can do. The cheapest thing. Instead of fighting these wars that we dont know what were doing and we have leaders that are afraid to do anything, were going to make it so great, so strong that people  gosh, theyre not messing. Theyre not messing.
And were going to take care of our great vets, our wounded warriors. Were going to take care of them. Because they  thank you, they are not being taken care of.
We have illegal immigrants that are taken care of better than our incredible veterans and its not going to happen any longer. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.
So with ISIS  Trump 46%. Can you imagine that? With all of these characters running.
On foreign policy, Trump way up. And you know, in theory you could say "Well, maybe its not my thing." But people want to see strong, they want to see strength, they want to see protection, they want to be protected. And thats it.
I watched last night and I watched the president truly that didnt know what he was doing. He didnt know why he was there. He refuses to use the term "radical Islamic terrorism". He refuses to use the term.
I dont even know if he knows what the hell is going on. I really dont.
And then were looking at Hillary Clinton. Honestly, I know Hillary. Its just going to be an extension of Obama. I think maybe worse.
Shes got no strength. Shes got no stamina. Remember that.
You dont need a president with no strength or stamina when were being ripped off on trade, were being ripped off on Obamacare, which is going to be repealed and replaced by something really good.
When our soldiers arent being taken care of, when our military is never been like it is today.
One of the generals was on television, as usual, saying that were the least prepared now than anytime that hes ever seen it and hes been there a long time retiring. Thats how we are.
In the most dangerous world weve ever had because of the power of weapons, we have people that dont know  they dont  Im telling you. I watch them. I watch these generals being interviewed.
Do you think Gen. George Patton would be interviewed?
Theyd be interviewed after total and complete victory.
Gen. Douglas MacArthur. Theyre not big for interviews. You know, they shoot first, they talk later.
These guys  and I dont think well have to.
You know, just so you understand, Bush  Bush, he said yesterday he was being interviewed, he said that he was talking about me. He was saying the nicest things about me. Of course, he says hell be elected. Hes at what 3%? Right?
No, but he said some things and I was like  I said "Who says that about an opponent? You dont say those things." Youll find out what he said. But he said very nice things.
But, if you look at what happens where he is upset with me because he says the tone  the tone  of Donald Trump is not nice.
And I say it all the time. We have people whose heads are being chopped off in the Middle East because theyre Christian and for other reasons. Theyre being dumped and drowned in steel cages. And we talk about my tone.
Hillary said the same thing. "Mr. Trumps tone is not nice."
These people are living in a different planet. Different planet.
And remember what I said about Hillary. We need somebody whos strong. We need somebody with incredible energy but incredible intelligence and all of those things.
You know, I know a lot of tough people but theyre not smart. Thats no good. Theyre easy.
We need tough. We need smart. We need like every character. We are so far behind the eight ball in this country.
We owe $19 trillion. The budget they signed two weeks ago is going to make it $21 trillion. Its a  think of it. Trillion. Trillion. Trillion dollars. Who the hell ever heard of the word 10 years ago? There was no such word.

We owe $21 trillion in the very near future. Were really in trouble. We have to rebuild our country. We have to rebuild our infrastructure. We have to rebuild our military.
And yet, we do deals with China where theres a trade imbalance of over $400 billion a year in their favor, by the way, in case you had any question.
Japan  they send their cars by the millions. $70 billion a year imbalance. Thats like a loss.
You look at Mexico. Were going to build a wall. It will be a real wall. It will be a real wall. Gonna happen. Its gonna happen.
The people Im dealing with  and you know, I really focus on Hillary later because I have to get through these 15 people. You know, theres 15 of us.
I had Perry came at me strong; he went down. I had Gov. Walker, nice guy, he went down. Every guy that attacks me so far theyve all gone down. Weve got to keep it that way, right?
I mean, Lindsey Graham. Hes at zero. Hes at zero. Zero.
Let me ask you a question. I dont get Lindsey Graham. I dont get himHes literally at zero. You see him. And he keeps talking. He gets so much television. I mean, hes on television all the time and he doesnt go up. Hes at zero, folks.
His ideas are so bad. Im more militaristic than him. But I know how to win; he doesnt. He just wants to attack everything. He doesnt know where the hell  ra ha.
And he always sits with John McCain. Its like theyre the Bobbsey twins. Theyre always sitting together. No, its true. Do you ever notice? Sometimes I want to see him by himself. Hes always sitting with John McCain, whos fine. Im not knocking it. But you got to know what to do.
Now me, I was against the war in Iraq. So everyone says, you have the right temperament  I have a great temperament. But youve got to attack. If youve got to do something, youve got to know what youre doing.
I said if you attack Iraq and you wipe it out, Iran is going to take over the entire Middle East because youre going to ruin the balance. It was so simple to me.
And actually they sent a group from the White House to see me because I got so much publicity, so much publicity that they sent a group from the White House to see Mr. Trump. I said, "Fellas, youre going to have Iran take over the Middle East and thats whats happening."
And Irans going to take over Iraq as sure as youre sitting there.
And by the way, Iraq, with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world. We lost of thousands of lives. We have wounded warriors all over the place. $2 trillion. We have nothing. We got nothing. We have absolutely nothing. And we left.
And we have a president  we shouldnt have been there but then we shouldnt have left the way we left.

You know, the funny thing is I look at Democrats and liberals and conservatives and Republicans  wouldnt it be good all of us if we can get together and really make our country great again? Is that what we want to do?
Ill bet you that if I spoke to that young woman, that quickly I really think I can convince her that were all in this together, folks. We want to have a strong country. Right?
But you know, if you think about it and youll have some that can never be satisfied no matter what. Theyre just troublemakers, et cetera, et cetera. But most people arent and they believe something. And I have some very smart friends dont agree with me; they agree with the other side.
But I really believe that if you took it about making America great, we have to be strong, we have to be vigilant, and if were not vigilant  [interrupted by protester]  that was the same person. Ive got to tell you, so far, the security is not doing a great job in here, Ill tell you that. That was the same person. You can do very nice but why dont you get her out because honestly its inappropriate. So security, strengthen yourself up.
See, our country has this kind of security. Thats the problem we haveTreat her very nicely please but she should now be taken out. Same person. One person. Its one person. They let her out. They gave her a second chance and the same thing happens.
But you would think that everybody were all on the same basket that everybody every single person  [interrupted by protester]
So you would think that if we could get together, wed all be in the same boat.
Now, last night we all saw and we witnessed something that I thought was highly inappropriate.
In fact, I tweeted "Is that all there is?" about the presidents speech and I wrote something today that I think is very, very salient, very important, and probably not politically correct but I dont care. I dont care.

You know, we had a situation in California very recently where somebody was making bombs in an apartment. The mother saw them. The mother didnt notice anything wrong. I watched the sister being interviewed. Believe me, in my opinion, she was lying like crazy. I watched that interview. "Oh, my brother was such a wonderful guy. I didnt know, I didnt know, I didnt know."
And I watched the next door neighbor saying, "Oh, well we didnt report them because we didnt want to racially profile or we didnt want to profile." Give me a break. Give me a break.
Were like the stupid country in so many different ways. Its so  can you imagine what our great leaders of the past would have said with the kind of crap thats happening with us?
They didnt want to report them because they thought it was profiling.
Okay, they saw bombs. They saw, you know, the pipe bombs only this wasnt to build a bathroom. When a bomb is this long, cant put too many of them together for a bathroom, right? And we thought they maybe but we didnt want to racially profile. Oh, okay, youre okay, youre innocent.
Or how about where the families and the girlfriends and the wives and everything and they go back to World Trade Center  the worst, worse than Pearl Harbor because with the World Trade Center they were killing innocent civilians. At least while it was a dirty, rotten sneak attack, at least they werebut while it was an attack, at least it was military. But this was an attack on the World Trade Center.
So, whats happened is were out of control. We have no idea whos coming into our country. We have no idea if they love us or if they hate us. We have no idea if they want to bomb us. We have no idea whats going on.
And then I looked at poll numbers and I dont mean polls where Im winning; those numbers I like looking at. These numbers I hated to look at. And its very, very sad.
Ill go after some of the numbers. 25% of those polled and this was from the Center for Security Policy  very highly respected group of people who I know actually.
This is people living in this country. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans is justified as Muslims. 25%.
51% of the Muslims living in this country  by the way, I have friends that are Muslims; theyre great people. But they know we have a problem. They know we have a real problem. Because somethings going on, and we cant put up with it, folks. We cant put up with it.
51%  51% highly respected number of polling groups want to be governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is.
So I wrote this out. The mainstream media wants to surrender the Constitution. The mainstream media  these people back here. Theyre the worst. They are so dishonest. No, no, theyre so dishonest. They are so dishonest.
I mean, I have one from NBC, a reporter from NBC, and actually another one from CBS, they actually in Columbus, Ohio, I had a tremendous crowd like 10,000 people. It was a love fest. It went on for a long time. Everybody stayed right tis the end. I had one of the politicians  Kasich  who is just getting  hes a horrible debaterHe made a statement that "Oh, they left after 10 minutes." Now, the press was there. They saw it. Nobody said it was a lie. It was a total lie. In fact, I had more people at the end than I had at the beginning. Nobodys leaving. Nobodys leaving here except for the one person that was screaming.
So, we asked the press to report that it was a total lie and they didnt want to do that because its not their thing to do.
You know, we get the biggest crowds. They dont want to show this crowd tonight. Theyre not going to show all the people outside trying to get in. They dont do that. They have the cameras right in my face. I say fan the crowd just to show  look at all the people over here. Its a record in the history of this ship. But they dont show it. They dont show it. No, no. And I say fan it and they never ever fan it. I say fan the crowd and they never fan it. And yet, I guarantee you that that young woman that just got taken out after interrupting us three times, I guarantee the cameras will be on her. I guarantee. Its disgusting. Disgusting.
And by the way, some of the medias terrific but most of it 70%, 75% is absolute dishonest, absolute scum. Remember that. Scum. Scum. Theyre totally dishonest people.

I had one the other day where I finished the speech and they said "Oh, Trump was interrupted and he left early." I spoke for like 45, 50 minutes. I then answered questions and then I went around, you know, everybody knew it was false.
Amazingly, theres a media group that calls the media and the next day they did the most beautiful story about what a lie it was from NBC. Shes back there. Little Katie. Shes back there. What a lie it was. No, what a lie  Katie Tur  what a lie it was from NBC to have written that. It was a total lie. And they did a story where they  I didnt know they had a group like this where they actually criticized the media. And they said it was a total lie. And I loved it. I loved it. I loved it.
And then other people pick it up. You know its NBC so somebody picks it up. Third rate reporter. Remember that. Third rate. Third rate.
So I said here the mainstream media wants to surrender our Constitution and our constitutional rights. And I dont want that. I want ISIS to surrender. Okay? I want ISIS to surrender. Very simple.
Its very simple. So heres what happened. Its been a little controversial. Its been a great day because the poll numbers are through the roof. I like that.
But I have moreI wish we could call  is there any way we could call the election tomorrow? Wouldnt you love that?
Now theyre coming at us in full force. Theyre coming  not coming at me. Theyre coming at all of us. Theyre coming at all of us. Because you know, we have a noisy majority. They used to call it the quiet majority. People are fed up. Theyre fed up with incompetence. Theyre fed up with stupid leaders. Theyre fed up with stupid people.
They are fed up with stupid people, where our president makes a deal for Sergeant Bergdahl, a dirty, rotten, no good traitor who  think of it. They knew he was a traitor because a general and a colonel went to see his group. Six people were killed looking for him. Okay? Six people were killed. Young. Unbelievable. I watched the parents on television. Ive seen the parents. But I watched the parents on television devastated, will never be the same. They left to try to bring them back. He left. He deserted.
You know, in the old days when we were strong country it would be boom, gone. It was called desertion. Now I heard the other day they wont even do anything to him. Can you believe it? They think hes going to get away with nothing. Hes going to have nothing.
So he left. Oh, they treated him pretty rough though. He got in there, he said, "I shouldnt have done this. This isnt working out the way I thought."
Anyways, so we get him back and heres the deal we made. We get a dirty, no good traitor. Six people killedThey get five of their greatest killers that theyve been after  after  think of it for six years. In fact, I hear nine years.
So they get these  right now have gone  theyre out in the battlefield, trying to kill everybody in front of them including you folks, Id hate to tell you.
So we get Bergdahl and they get five of the killers that theyve wanted for many years. Thats the way we do it.
The Iran deal. We gave them $150 billion. Its called amateur night. We gave them $150 billion. 24 days  24 days  we think theres something wrong, 24 days we have to wait but its much longer than that because theres a whole process before the clock starts ticking. So it could be forever.
But the best is where they have the right to self-inspect. "Are you doing nuclear weapons over there?" "Oh, well inspect tomorrow." "Oh no, were not doing nuclear weapons."
You know, the Persians are great negotiators. Always have been. And somebody would say thats profiling. Trust me, theyre great negotiators.
And Kerry is a horrible negotiator and Obama is a horrible negotiator. Horrible. Hes a horrible negotiator. These people are horrible.
I always Obama would be a unifier. I never thought of him as being like a divider because I said "You know what? I dont think hes going to be a good president."
I backed McCain; he lost by the way. And you know, I dont blame McCain for losing because a lot of bad things will happen; it was a tough one. But I backed McCain; he lost. I backed Romney; he should have won but he sort of went away on vacation or something the last month and he lost. And I said, "This time Im going to do it myself. Were not going to lose." Were not going to lose. Were not losing.
And the recent Fox poll that just came out has me beating Hillary very easily one on one. I love that. Thats so important.

So, we put out a statement today. We watched this. And its impossible to watch this gross incompetence but I watched last night.
And we put out a statement a little while ago and these people are going crazy
Shall I read you the statement?
Donald J. Trump is calling for  now, youve got to listen to this because this is pretty heavy stuff and its common sense and we have to do it. Remember the poll numbers. 25%, 51%. Remember the poll numbers. So remember this. So listen.
Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our countrys representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.
We have no choice. We have no choice. We have no choice.
According to Pew Research, among others, there is a great hatred toward Americans by large segments of the Muslim population.
Most recently, a poll from Center for Security Policy released data showing 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans  these are people that are here by the way, people that are here  25% not 1%. By the way, 1% would be unacceptable. 1% is unacceptable. 25% of those polled agreed that violence against Americans here in the United States is justified as part  think of that  as part of the global jihad.
They want to change your religion. I dont think so. I dont think so. I dont think so. Not going to happen.
As part of the global jihad. And 51% of those polled agreed that Muslims in America should have the choice of being governed according to Sharia. You know what Sharia is. 51%.
Sharia authorizes  now look, this is, I mean, its terrible. Sharia authorizes such atrocities as murders against non-believers who wont convert, beheadings, and more unthinkable acts that pose great harm to Americans especially women. I mean, you look  especially women. Tough stuff.
And we have a president that wont even mention the term and youre talking about numbers like this.
Mr. Trump stated without looking at the various polling data, its obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension
Where the hatred comes from and why, well have to determine. Well have to figure it out. We have to figure it out. We cant live like this. Its going to get worse and worse. Youre going to have more World Trade Centers. Its going to get worse and worse folks.
We could be politically correct and we can be stupid but its going to get worse and worse.
Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victim of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad.
These are people only believe in jihad. They dont want our system. They dont want our system and have no sense of reason or respect for human life. They have no respect for human life.

So prior to Paris, which was a disaster, which by the way if some of the people in those places where it was slaughter, absolute slaughter, had guns, you wouldnt have had the carnage that you had in Paris. You wouldnt had that carnage. If they had guns, you wouldnt had that carnage.
So important the Second Amendment. We have to preserve it and cherish it. And we cant let these weak leaders diminish it.
If they had guns in Paris, if five people in that room, Paris and France has probably the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world and it was like target practice. "Come over here. Boom! Come over here. Boom!" People are sitting by the hundreds and many others are going to be dying. Theyre sitting in the hospital in many cases waiting to die.
Now, the same thing a few days ago in California. No guns. We didnt have guns. The bad guys had the guns.
And these young people  and I tell the press youve got to stop calling them "masterminds"  these are dirty, rotten scums. These arent masterminds.
Remember the guy in Paris with the big dirty hat? Remember the guy in Paris  the "mastermind". I was watching all the networks. I wont mention who but some of them disgusted me. "The mastermind is on the loose."
And we have kids that are watching the Internet and they want to be masterminds and then you wonder why do we lose all these kids  they go over there. Theyre young. Theyre impressionable. They go over there and they want to join ISIS.
And we have our anchors  I think I got them mostly stopped. Did you notice that? I dont hear it too much. But they say "the young mastermind". Oh, hes brilliant. Young man, hes brilliant.
I dont even hes got a high IQIn Paris, I call him the guy with the dirty filthy hat. Okay? Not a smart guy. A dummy. Puts people in there  mastermind  bing, bing, bing, its like shooting everybody. Youve got to be a mastermind.
So the press has to be responsible. Theyre not being responsible because were losing a lot of people because of the Internet.
And we have to do something. We have to go see Bill Gates and a lot of different people that really understand whats happening. We have to talk to them. Maybe in certain areas closing that Internet up in some way.
Somebody will "Oh, freedom of speech, freedom of speech". These are foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people. We have a lot of foolish people.
Weve got to maybe do something with the Internet because they are recruiting by the thousands. Theyre leaving our country. And then when they come back, we take them back. "Oh, come on back. Where were you?" "I was fighting for ISIS." "Oh, come on back. Go home. Enjoy yourself."
When they leave our country and they go to fight for ISIS or any of the other groups, they never come back. They never can come back. They never can come back. They can never, ever, ever come back. Its over.
How about that? And now that theyve become radicalized, theyre totally radicalized.
And how about the woman? She was in Pakistan then Saudi Arabia. She comes in on an engagement deal and she radicalized the guy. Probably a guy who couldnt get women. I dont know what the hell his problem is. Its probably the first women hes ever had. I dont know what was going on. But he became radicalized quickly. Notice how easy it is? He becomes radicalized and then they go on a spree.
Folks, those days are over. Those days are over. We have to be tough. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
Yes, we have to look at mosques and we have to respect mosques. But yes, we have to look at mosques. We have no choice. We have to see whats happening because something is happening in there. Man, theres anger. Theres anger. And we have to know about it. We cant be these people that are sitting back like in the World Trade Center, like so many different things.
We cant be people that knew what was going on two weeks ago in California, probably for months they knew what was going on and they didnt want to tell anybody. We cant be that.
We have to be strong. When we see violations, you have to report those violations and quickly. Dont worry about profiling. I promise I will defend you from profiling. I promise.

So when I started this whole quest  I mean, who knew it was going to turn into this? Its been an amazing thing. No matter where I go, I have tremendous crowds, packed crowds, packed.
We went to Dallas  20,000 people in Dallas. 25,000 people. Mobile, Alabama  35,000 people. Here, every time I come to South Carolina, every time I go to North Carolina, every time I go to Iowa, New Hampshire, Virginia, wherever I go  Florida  we have crowds that are maxed. The only problem we have is the size of the room  thousands of people outside trying to get in. Usually I do a double. I go talk to them for a while, which I wouldnt say I exactly love doing after the first one.
But there is an unbelievable love in these rooms  all the same. I love you too. I love youThank you. Thank you. I love you too.
Theres an unbelievable love in all of these places  Oklahoma  20,000 people standing in a park on quick notice. Theres an unbelievable love. And theres an unbelievable love of the country. We want to see good things. We dont want to be bad people. We dont want to be tough and nasty. We believe in the Constitution more than anybody.
But we cant let people use and abuse our rights. We cant let people kill us. They want to kill us. They want to destroy us. We cant let it happen. We just cant let it happen.
And I have a friend whos a very, very successful man, and I went to one event  he came with me. We had 24,000 people. And this guys a real tough cookie. Hes a great financial guy. One of the guys Id definitely use to negotiate with Japan, China. Believe me, youre going to be in good shape when that happens. We wont have these characters.
You know, this whole thing with all of these guys. By the way, Im the only one thats self-funding my campaign. Everyone else is controlled. Only one. Im the only one. Only one.
Im self-funding my campaign. And these other guys. You know, theyre getting millions and millions of dollars from people I know.
I have one guy came and wanted to give me a lot of money. I said, "Honestly, I cant take it. I dont want to do." I cant take it, which is very sort of like for me to not take money  my whole life Ive been taking money. Now Im sort of like what am I doing? But came in and I said, "So what are you going to do? I dont want your money." And he said, "I got to go someplace else." Theyre like gamblers. Theyre like gamblers. But I said, "You like me best." "I like you best but Im going to go someplace else." Because they want to be part  they want to 
Let me tell you, who is more than me? I gave millions to these guys. Nobody knows the system better than me. I knew it from the other side. Dont forget, I was the fair-haired boy. I was like the establishment. Theyd all come to me, and Id give them all money I write checks sometimes to Senators whatever the max  bing, bing, bing.
I used to say "Senators, dont come to my office. Anybody thats a U.S. Senator that calls me, well send you a campaign contribution."
But you know what? Ill tell you something. In the end, the people that gives these millions of dollars to these horrible, corrupt PACS  theyre corrupt  they totally control Bush and Rubio and I wont say Cruz because hes been very nice to me. Nah, hes been nice. Hes got to hit me first. Once he hits me, I promise you. I promise you.
No, Ive been nice to Christie but he really hit me today. Chris Christie. I mean, I dont know. Hes a friend of mine but hes not doing well in the polls and he really, really hit me today. He hated this and yet he said anybody could come. Youve got to look at some of the statements from the past. But he really hit me on the whole thing that we have to stop the Muslims until we find out whats going on.
Does that make sense by the way? Until we find out.
And he talked about  thats inexperience and you know in other words he has experience right?
But thats the statement of an inexperienced manAbout we have to stop people that want to kill us from coming in. Does that sound like inexperienced?
So Chris, whos a friend of mine, he hit me hard. And I said I got to hit him at least once. So I wont do this a lot.
Look, heres the story. The George Washington Bridge. He knew about it.
Hey, how do you have breakfast with people everyday of your lives, theyre closing up the largest bridge in the world, the biggest in the United States, traffic flowing during rush hour. People couldnt get across for 6, 7 hours. Ambulances, fire trucks. Theyre with him all the time  the people that did it.

They never said, "Hey boss, were closing up the George Washington Bridge tonight." No, they never said that. Theyre talking about the weather, right?
He knew about it. He knew about it. Totally knew about it. Hes a got a very friendly group of people over there that they dont think so. But I dont know. Its called life. Youve got to be smart in life.
I would say theres less than 1% chance. It could be but I doubt it. He knew about it. They didnt mention at one of their meetings? I think they had breakfast like everyday or every other day. Theyd just say, "Chris, tonight were closing up the George Washington Bridge because the mayor a certain area is against you." "Oh, okay." They didnt mention? Nobody believes that.
Number two. Nine downgrades of the state. Nine downgrades. Its a disaster. I have property over there  the taxes are through  Ill use an expression  coming out of my ears, okay? Tremendous taxes over there. You had nine downgrades.
You had Christie, you know, so friendly with President Obama during the flood.
I actually called. I said, "Let me ask you. Is he going to vote for Obama?" I thought he was going to vote for Obama. I dont know. I think he possibly did.
And Romney I was very disappointed. One of the reasons I was disappointed was he called Christie and had dinner right after the election. If Christie did that to me, I would have never spoken to him again. I would have never done it.
So when Chris talks about  when he talks about lack of experience  I built this incredible company. I filed papers where everyone said "Wow, that is unbelievable." I would have probably filed them even when I didnt run because I built a great, great company. Tremendous cash. Tremendous assets. Tremendous net worth. Very little debt. Unbelievable cash flow. And I filed.
Everybody said "Number one, he wont run." And I ran. I took a deep breath and I said, "Lets go" to my wife and we came down that escalator. Right, the famous escalators. Hopefully in many years that will be a very famous scene because we will have turned around our country and that will be a positive note, okay?
But then they said, "Oh, well he announced." So these talking heads  most of whom are not even smart people, believe me. Then theyd say well, they went to Ivy League college. So did I go to Ivy League college. They went to this. Most of them didnt go to Ivy League colleges by the way but they say theyre brilliant. Ones brilliant because he wears glasses, you know? Like Perry. Remember Perry? We dont like him.
But what happens is they say "Well, hell never file form A." Thats basically where you sign your life away. I filed form A.
Then they said, "Well, hell never sign his financial statement because maybe hes not as rich as everybody thinks." Then they said, "And if he does, hell ask for many, many delays because youre entitled to 45 day delays, delays, and you can delay it until forever. And theyll delay it until after the election."
I said, "No" so I filed it ahead of schedule. And what happened? Remember? They went down. They couldnt believe it. It was much, much, much better than anybody ever envisioned.
I built a great company and the reason  honestly worth billions and billions of dollars. Remember that  low debt, great cash flow, and the greatest assets  Doral, Trump Tower, the Trump Building, big chunk of the Bank of America building in San Francisco, 1290 Ave., land all over, land on the Potomac, land all over.
In North Carolina, I have a great piece of property. Trump National Golf Club. Some of you know it. Great, right at the best location.
And what happens? What happens? So I filed and everyone said "Oh, I cant believe it."
Then they said "Well, maybe he wont do so well with the polls." And you know, before I went, people never believed I was going to run. They never thought I was going to run.
And I told the story the other night for really the first real time. But my wife said to me "You know if you run you will win. Dont you?" Shes very smart.
I said, "What do you mean?" She said, "If you dont run, youre never going to poll before. Nobody believes youre going to run." So if they do polls like they did these early polls, they werent great before I announced. She said, "No, the only way youre going to get a poll number is youve got to announce." Nobody believes even though they say, even though they say youre running, it doesnt matter. Nobody believes youre running.
So I said, "All right." Im getting these lousy early numbers and Im saying, "I dont know. I dont want to run and find out it doesnt work." I dont want to be embarrassed like Lindsey Graham and all these guys who have nothing. Its true. Its true.
So I said, "All right. Lets take it."
So we go down on the escalator. You know what I did? You remember I took a deep breath because Im telling you and you know what Im talking about the press down there look like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras. I have never seen anything like it. The entire atrium of Trump Tower was packed with cameras and press. And I just said, "Lets go" to my wife.

I took a deep breath and I went down and I talked about lots of things, including illegal immigration.
And illegal immigration was such a big subject. And Im telling you had I not brought it up, it has turned out to be  and I took heat. I took heat like nobody has ever taken heat. Rush Limbaugh said "The most incredible incoming that Ive ever seen a human being endure". And then he doubled down a week later because I was right.
And now, illegal immigration is one of the biggest things.
And then you had the killing of Kate [Steinle] and the killing of Jamiel and the killing recently in California of a 66-year-old  think of it, 66-year-old  veteran, female, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. And many, many more. Its a huge problem.
And they take our jobs and a lot of other things.
So all of a sudden, everyones saying "Wow"and from almost at the beginning, youve seen Ive been at the top like from almost day one.
The reason I tell you certain things and the reason I talk about what Ive done and lots of good things. A little thing  Wollman ice skating rink. The city couldnt get it built for high years. They were in there for like $20 million. They couldnt get it done. I went to the mayor of New York, I said, "Ed Koch, Ill get it done real quick." He didnt like it because he didnt want to be shown up. I said Ill do it and if it costs more than $2 million Ill pay for it. I got it built for peanuts. Got it done in four months. And we had ice skating in Central Park and I still run it.
I did another one  I did a bigger version of that recently Ferry Point out in the Bronx. They were having  things have been under construction from anywhere between 20 and 30 years. They couldnt get it done. I got it done under a year. Its operating now. Its very successful.
Its what I do and thats what we need. Thats what we need in our country.
Im building on Pennsylvania Avenue an incredible hotel. One of the great hotels of the world. The Old Post Office site. Think of it. I got it in the Obama administration. Everybody was bidding. Everybody wanted it. One of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA  general services. And I got it. Can you imagine me getting it from the Obama administration? Because the GSA, who are really professionals, they want to make sure number one that it got built. So they wanted strong financials. And they also wanted a great plan. So we came up with Ivanka and my kids we came up with this incredible plan. The job is under budget, ahead of schedule. It was going to open up in 17  sometime during the year 17. Now, its going to open probably in September of 16 right before the election on Pennsylvania Avenue.
And this is the kind of mindset you need.
Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, and others have endorsed me.
We have trillions and trillions of dollars offshore. Pfizers leaving the United States.
In the old days, somebody would leave for, frankly, South Carolina. Theyd leave New York or Florida or someplace where the taxes are lower. Theyd leave for North Carolina. Theyd leave  today theyd leave this country for other countries.
So now, were losing Pfizer. Were losing many of our great companies.
We have $2.5 trillion offshore at least. And everybody agrees it should come home  the Democrats, the Republicans. For three years, they cant make a deal. They cant make a deal because theres such gridlock. Theres no leadership in Washington.
We will make this country so great. We have people and Ill tell you something. Ill tell you something[interrupted by protester] said something to me the other day and what I really want to do  [interrupted by protester]  what we want to do or what I want to do is I want to be the peoples president.
Think of this, think of this, I dont work for any of the lobbyists. I dont work for any of these people that are leading our country in the wrong direction. We dont.
The best thing that Ive seen in going around and the thing that Ive seen more than anything else is how smart the people are. They dont believe those people in the back that write with fork. Im telling you, they dont believe them. The people are really smart.
Whats giving me more inspiration than any other single thing are the people that Ive met  the incredible people of this country.
Were going to make America great again. And you know what? Were going to make it greater, greater, than ever before. And I love you all and thank you very much. South Carolina. Great. Thank you! We love you. Thank you!

Thank you very much, everybody. You just like me because my daughter happens to be Jewish. Right? She has a great husband, Jared, and Ill tell you what Ivanka could not be happier and shes very proud. The only bad news, I cant get her on Saturday. I call and I call. I cant speak to my daughter anymore on Saturdays. But thats okay.
Its an honor to be with you. You know, Ive devoted so much time over my life to Israel, and the other politicians they can talk but believe me they havent done what Ive done. Ive received many, many awards.
I was the Grand Marshal of the Israeli Day Parade at a very dangerous time when people said, "Dont do it. Dont do it." I walked up Fifth Avenue. Im looking up for lots of trouble. But I said, "No way am I not going to do it." And it was a rough time as you know. It was 2004, and it was a tremendously successful parade. Maybe their most successful parade that they ever had.
So, Im in a different position than the other candidates because Im the one candidate I dont want any of your money; I want your support but I dont want your money.
Im self-funding my campaign. Its been an amazing experience for me because I have very little money invested so far.
I thought by this time Id have about 30 million in ads and I have none although I took a small radio commercial the other day in Iowa. But we have virtually no money in invested in ads or advertising. And I think you as business people will feel pretty good about this and respect it.
At first, I was embarassed by that. I said, "You know, I think were going to have spend money just to spend money" but its not really like a good thing to do because I am in first place by a lot. Its not even close. Every single poll, every single state.
The numbers just came in three minutes ago in New Hampshire  the PPP poll  Trump at 27%, the next one is 13%, 10%, 9%, 8%, 5%, and the rest are off the board. They have to drop out pretty soon I guess, right?
Most of importantly, favorability  no, I still like the top number the most but favorability is now at 50% to 39%, which is good, and I beat Hillary in the Fox poll as you see very easily 46% to 41%. Thats ultimately the most important.
And you know, Ive been a tremendous fan and Ive been a tremendous contributor. Ive given a lot of money recently to Hatzalah, $100,000, emergency response. They do a fantastic job.
And my father, Fred, was always a big supporter. So I grew up in that environment. I grew up in Brooklyn, Queens, and Israel was always very paramount in our mind.
In fact, Ive been sometimes criticized because I received so many awards from Jewish groups, and they look at my wall. Its loaded up. But now the Christians are catching up, I have to tell you.
My Christians are liking me a lot lately and theyve been great. They have been great.
So, Obama is the worst thing thats ever happened to Israel. The worst. The worst.
And when I see great friends of mine who are very, very pro-Israel, very  I mean, they love Israel. They love it with passion, and theyre having fundraisers for Obama. I said, "What are you doing?"
And its almost like they answer me and they say, "We dont know. He comes to New York. We dont know. We dont know." I said hes a disaster.
I really believe the Iran deal. Look, Im a negotiator like you folks. Were negotiators.
We dont build gas stations in the middle of, as you know, Afghanistan for $43 million  can you imagine this? A small gas station  $43 million  and then they used the wrong kind of terminal because they dont sell that type of gas. Okay? $43 million for a gas station.
How many think they could have done it for less? Would you raise your hands please?
But I look at Obama, I look at that deal where we gave to Iran $150 billion. They dont need to develop nuclear weapons; they can buy them. They can buy them. Its true. Why do they have to develop them? They can buy them. We gave them $150 billion.
They go out and in terms of, you know, surveillance, they have the right to self-inspect. How about that? On their major, most dangerous they can self-inspect.

Were going to let them self-inspect. And then you have of course the 24 days and the 24 days were all good with contracts dont start until such and such happens. It could be forever before you ever go into inspect.
And we dont even get our prisoners back.
And now they want to start a negotiation to get the prisoners back and they want 19 people for our three. They dont want to give us our four. You know we have four. But they only want to talk three.
Now, that should have been negotiated right at the beginning, three years ago.
And maybe better than any audience, I mean, the people in this room understand what Im saying. It should have been you walk in  by the way, did you ever see a negotiation take so long? And we conceded on every single. We didnt win anything. We didnt win anything.
But that should have been with our prisoners  day one, whatever it is years ago, we have to get our prisoners back. You dont want them. We need them. It will make us look better. Both everybody is going to like us more. With the American public, any deal that we strike, its going to look good.
And you say that. We have to get our prisoners back. Day one. Theyre going to say, "No, were not giving." And were going to say, "Bye bye. Bye! Call us when youre ready." And then we go out and double up and triple up the sanctions. I guarantee you within 48 hours theyre calling, begging us to come back to the table and you have your prisoners back. Its so easy.
Now, the president, you saw that, and John Kerry, who is probably the worst negotiator Ive ever seen. No, hes the worst negotiator Ive ever seen. He did not read The Art of the Deal, folks, I can tell you that. Now, hes one of the few. Hes one of the  biggest selling of all time business book of all time, he didnt read it. And Obama definitely didnt read it. Obama, ayeyeye. Oh.
But they said  this is hard to believe but this is what they said  a lot of press back there so I have to say everything exactly correct because if I dont I end up with a  they said we didnt want to complicate the negotiations by asking for the prisoners. Its really complicated. We want our prisoners back. Oh, so complicated. They said they didnt want to complicate  so now, were going to end up making a new deal probably at some point.
Id tell you this, look Ill just tell you this: If I win, before I take office, I guarantee you those prisoners are going to be back. Theyre going to be back, I guarantee you. Theyre going to be back.
Now, our president doesnt want to use the term  we had another event, which probably was  the one yesterday  probably was related. It always happens but it probably was. When I heard about it, I figured maybe not. But it turns out probably was related  radical Islamic terrorism. And Ill tell you what, we have a president that refuses to use the term. He refuses to say. Theres something going on with him that we dont know about.
Now, as far as Hillarys concerned, shes going to go with what he wants.
She shouldnt be allowed to run. What she did is criminal with the emails. She shouldnt be allowed to run.
Shes going to have to follow his line because shes on a thread. You know, look, in real life, his Attorney General, his U.S. Attorney, his Attorney General. So his Attorney General is going to listen to him in my opinion. I think its very dishonest whats going on with our government.
Gen. [David] Petraeus was given a life-changing sentence. Other people have been sent to jail. Petraeus was, you know, essentially  look, I dont want to get into it with the poor guy. What he went  for nothing, compared to what she did for nothing, for 5% of what she did.
And Obama, I mean, she cant go against him because only does boom she gets indicted. Thats the end of it. Thats the end of it.
So when you see Hillary backing up virtually everything he says, and hes got control of her. I mean, its just total control.
But Ill tell you what, she shouldnt be allowed to run. What she did was a criminal act.
And remember this, this is a six-year  you have a six year statute of limitations. So shes fighting for her life. If she doesnt become president, she could have a real problem. Does that make any sense to anybody? Does that make sense to anybody?
Because what she did was just wrong. Okay? And you know shes been involved in corruption her whole life, whether its Whitewater. I mean, her whole life is corruption.

She was a horrible Secretary of State. She did a horrible job other than traveled a lot. She traveled a lot, nothing ever got done. The whole  the world blew up around her. It blew up.
500 to 600 calls and emails and everything from our ambassador asking for help and she didnt respond.
The truth is she doesnt have the strength or the energy. She responded to her friends. You know the friends were talking about. Some of those friends are, you know, sort of an interesting friend going on there.
But she responded  yeah, you get that, right? A lot of people dont get that.
But she responded to a friend, but she doesnt respond to an ambassador thats asking for help. Hundreds  hundreds of requests and she doesnt respond.
Now, remember this, I go every night to someplace. I mean, yesterday I was in Manassas, Virginia, we had an unbelievable crowd.
The other day I was in Florida, we had 12,000 people in Sarasota at 12 p.m. with the football games going on. 12,000 people. The convention center held 5,000. So we had thousands outside. I made a speech outside. I made two speechesI said, "You cant get me a larger convention center so I can do one speech?" My people said, "No, this is the biggest one. We set a record  a big record. We set a record everywhere. We beat the record of Elton John. Its true. Elton John. Im no longer competing with politicians. Im competing with the musical talent.
One of the great musicians said "You get the largest crowds of any single human being on Earth without a guitar" meaning who doesnt count on music.
So its true, weve had tremendous response. Weve had incredible response.
I think you know if you look at whats going on and I think based on the response, based on the polls  again I dont want your money therefore youre probably not going to support me because stupidly you want to give money. Trump doesnt want money therefore we cant  even though hes better than all these guys, even though hes going to do more for Israel than anybody else, even though Bibi Netanyahu asked me to do a commercial for him and I did and he won his race, so I was very happy about that. But he asked me to do a commercial. And they said I was the only celebrity. I dont know if thats  but they said Im the only celebrity. I dont know. Im not a celebrity. See now Im a politician. Im so embarrassed by that term.
You know, my how life Ive been a business, Ive been a developer. Ive employed tens of thousands of people over my lifetime. I have unbelievable statements and unbelievable company.
A lot of people said, "Oh, hell never file." This youll get a kick out of. "Hell never run because hell never want to file various papers. And then hell never file this and that and then youd have to sign your life away." The first paper  we all know about first papers. You sign your life away. Thats the end of it. He did it.
Then they said, "Well, hell never sign and hell never file his financials because who knows, maybe hes not as rich as people think."
So I filed my financials  almost 100 pages. The biggest ever filed by the federal elections. And everybody said, "Oh my, its much bigger and much stronger and holy mackeral, look at these numbers!"
If I didnt run, Id probably would have filed anyways because you know I built a great company and I like to brag about it whenever possible. Its true.
Some of the greatest assets  Doral, you know, Doral and Turnberry in Scotland and Trump Tower and many buildings in Manhattan. Just many  Bank of America building in San Francisco with a great partner and so many other buildings and things
And the reason I bring that up is because thats the kind of thinking we need.
And I dont bring it up as braggadocio. I bring it up because thats the kind of thinking we need in this country to bring us back. We have people that dont know the first thing about the word negotiation.
I can take anybody in this office, believe me, and theyre better than Obama and theyre better than Kerry and theyre better than the foolish people  the foolish people. Its so embarrassing when you see what happens.
Sergeant Bergdahl, all right? Sergeant Bergdahl  we get a traitor; they get five of the greatest killers that theyve wanted for nine years. You know, the deal was five for one.
And they knew he was a traitor before we made the deal. You know about Sergeant Bergdahl. He deserted. Six people were killed trying to get him back. They were looking for him.
The general and the colonel went to see all those people, they said, "No, he deserted. He was a traitor." And we still made the deal.
So we get a traitor. We can give him back. Do you want to re-negotiate deals? Some of us will re-negotiate deals. I would say about 99.9  is there anybody that doesnt re-negotiate deals in this room? This room negotiates so I want to re-negotiate  perhaps more than any room than Ive ever spoken. Maybe more. Its okay. Ive been called on that a couple of times too.

But the fact is I want to renegotiate that deal. I want to drop him right smack in the middle of where he came from. The hell  they can have him even if we dont get the five guys back because thats not going to happen because you know where they are right now? Theyre right now all in the battlefield fighting us and trying to kill us and kill anybody that gets in.
So they get their five guys that theyve wanted for nine years theyve wanted them and we get a dirty rotten traitor. But thats the way our people negotiate. Theyre stupid people. Okay? Theyre stupid people.
Its very sad. Its very sad.
So Ill just tell you that Im going to win. I am. Im going to win. I mean, unless something happens, you know, walk across the street, the wrong thing happens. But Ill tell you what, I have a great secret service. Heres a nice one, youre number one, they give you a secret service. I never saw so many people  talented people, great people.
But I believe Im going to win. I really have just a great feeling about it. And you know, my life has been about winning. Ive won, and my life has been about winning, and thats what I want to do for the country.
And if people say about my company and deals and you can do this deal or that deal, I have no interest.
Its like the other day  Ivanka, shes doing so great. "Dad, we can buy this wonderful office building and I said, "Honey, who cares? How can you talk to me about such trivial things, Ivanka?" Its amazing. See? Now Im dealing in trillions. Ive never heard of trillions before. You know, with this  we owe $19 trillion.
We just signed a budget thats so bad and the Republicans  you know, we know where the Democrats are coming from. But these Republican politicians, they go to Washington and theyre going to end Obamacare, which Im going to do by the way  Im ending, Im terminating, its going to be repealed and replaced with something much better. But they go to Washington and theyre going to do this and theyre going to do budgets  like I heard the guy before "Were going to work in the budget." Its all about that. What happens is theyre going to do budgets like were going to do this and that and I tell this story  then they walk into the Capitol Building, which is magnificent, and they look up "Darling, oh my, look at those columns, look at the ceiling, look at the angels. Oh, look at these magnificent floors." Theyve never seen anything like it. "Weve arrived. This is incredible." And then they become mainstream. "Well vote on Obamacare. Yes, I vote." They dont want to leave. They lose all of their courage. I want to use a nice word because otherwise theyd get reported for foul language. They lose all of their courage and theyve let us down. That wont happen with me.
So, again, youre not going to support me even though you know Im the best thing that could ever happen to Israel and Ill be that. I know why youre not going to support me and you know youre not going to support me because I dont want your money. Isnt it crazy? No, its true.
You know, if I wanted to have your money, I think Id have a damn good chance and I think Id get more money than anybody else.
Do you know the money I have turned down? This has not been my life turning down money. Guys want to give me millions.
I would have made  poor Jeb Bush, I mean, this poor guy with his low energy. Its sad. No, its sad.
I came up with that term, it became so defining. Its like having it on his forehead "I am low energy". No, no, its sad.
He raised $125 million, which means hes controlled totally, totally controlled by the people that gave him the money.
Thats why you dont want to give me money, okay? But thats okay. You want to control your own politician. Thats fine. Good. Fine. Think about that, folks. Dont worry about it.
I understand. Hey, five months ago, I was with you. Whos better than me? Who is better than me? I gave $350,000 to the Republican Governors Association. I never even gotten a letter of thank you. Its true. $350,000. I didnt receive one letter, not one letter from one governor. Stupid. The good thing is I dont give any  why would I give any more? You dont get a thank you letter.
Politicians  remember this  politicians forget, politicians generally arent competent, and the one thing they are good at is getting elected and thats what youre going to end up having.
But I would love your support but I dont want your money. I appreciate it. Now, lets take some questions. Okay? Good.

Im going to go there right after this. I have to go through  you know, you have to watch to make sure that the contractors arent stealing and ripping you off and everything else.
But to show you how important this forum is and how important the country is to me and how important Israel is to me, its so important, I dont mention my projects. Its not like very important to me anymore.
Whats really important to me is the United States and making it great again.
My theme is Make America Great Again. I mean, its taken off like crazy. The hats  its going crazy.
But you know, some of these guys try to copy it but I had it trademarked because were smart.
A couple of them got up. No, you see, I was making this speech and everybody stood up  make America great again But nobody stood up to them. But we sent them a little notice  dont use that term. Were trademarked.
Can you imagine I got the approval?
But we are  were building a great hotel down the road. I hope you all stay and its going to be wonderful

So I was interviewed yesterday by a whole group of reporters from AP and they did a very good job. Very fair story.
And one of the questions was about Israel and the Palestinians whats going to happen.
I said  I used that as an example of some deals that are maybe the hardest deal ever in history to makeCan we think of any deals? We all have tough deals, right? You know, we have some good, some bad
But I said people are going to have to make sacrifices one way or the other.
I believe  because Im a dealmaker  I believe that I can put both sides together.
But I said, itll take six months. At the end of six months and maybe sooner  with us we have a deal instinct. A lot of us. And you can walk into a room and you can almost tell like in two seconds whether or not youre going to make a deal.
I will know very quickly whether or not Ill be able to put that deal together.
I used that in this interview as an example of perhaps the hardest deal in history to put together. Theres probably no tougher deal.
If I could do that, it would make me so happy because theres so much violence, so much death, and just been going on for so many years.
Now, I said you have to have a commitment to make it. I dont know that Israel has the commitment to make it, and I dont know that the other side has the commitment to make it.
With that being said, you know, I have a good chance of winning because you look at whats going on. So I have a good chance. I dont like to as a dealmaker give away a lot of cards by talking about how I feel about this or that. Id rather save it for that moment when you walk into the room. I dont want one side or the other saying.
Look, I think people know where I stand. But wouldnt it be great if they could make a deal? But a lasting deal, a real deal. Not a phony deal thats going to last a week and then bad things started happening again.
Id love to  and I will give it. You know Obama, as you know he said it wont happen, meaning he gave up on this before it even started.
But I think it would be a great thing for Israel  I think it would be a great actually for both sides if a real deal could be made, and Im going to give it my best.
Im a great dealmaker. Thats what I do. I made a lot of money. Im going to give it my best. It would be great if that deal could be made.

By the way, Israel has given a lotAnd a lot of people dont know that. I think the public relations for Israel hasnt been so great because Israels given a lot but hasnt been given a lot of credit for what theyve given
In fact, some things have been given which were unthinkable and a lot of turmoil it caused in Israel. There were things given. But Id like to go in with a clean slate and just say lets go, everybodys even, we love everybody, and lets see if we could do something.
But I do think this  and I do think right from the beginning and that one of the reasons Im saying it now even though perhaps it comes back to haunt me later on it has to be said that Israel has given a lot. I dont know whether or not they want to go that far in a little step and you know thats going to be up to them. But Israel has not been given the credit that they deserve for what theyve done. I will say that. I will say that. So thats it.

You know what I want to do? I want to wait until I meet with Bibi. You know, Im leaving for Israel in a very short period of time. I know. I know what youre saying. I just  youre not going to be  whos the wise guy?
Do me a favor. Just relax. Okay? Youll like me very much, believe me. Okay? And you wonder why you get yourself in trouble. All right? Youre going to like me very much. Its going to be fine.
But again, you cant go in with that  if youre going to make a deal and you could make a great deal  you cant go in with the attitude were going to shove it down. Youve got to go in and get it and do it and do it nicely so everyones happy. Dont worry about it. Youre going to be very happy. Okay? Dont worry about it.

I think hes a very good man. I think hes been treated very badly. I think that our president has been unbelievably rude to Bibi. I dont know how many people like Bibi. But I think hes been unbelievably rude.
And  I mean, well talk about deals after the fact, which is a shame but I think the Iran deal is the worst single thing.
Perhaps itll go down  and Ive been pretty good at predicting things. I think its going to go down as the worst single thing thats ever happened to Israel. I think its a catastrophe for Israel.
And I think the fact that Obama was willing to make that deal for anybody that loves Israel to support this guy or even the Democratic Party is impossible to believe.
I think it will be one of the great catastrophes.
But if I get in, I will straighten it out, believe me. Its going to be straightened out. Its going to be straightened out tough and its going to be straightened out fast.
The one bad thing is if I get in, the $150 billion is gone. That hurts me and that hurts the people of Israel. But the $150 billion is gone because itll be gone before you get there.
You know, were talking about a year and more actually. Although the election very quick. You know, its coming up. Its now less than a year and you know we have the Iowa starts on February 1st and then we go right down the line and its very exciting. Were talking about a couple of months now for it to start.
For a person like me, I mean, its very exciting.

Well, I havent been working too much with the Arab leaders, to be honest with you. Okay?
You know, I told you I made commercials for Bibi. I dont know if thats going to help me in the negotiation. I can tell you. You know, Im trying to keep it nice and level, right? Then I get people screaming at me. But Im trying to keep it as level as possible but I for the most part dont know.
The King of Jordan seems like a nice man. I mean, I dont know. Were going to see. A lot of people like him; some people dont.
But I think I will probably be able  what my history  you know, I took some heat because I get along with Democrats, I get along with liberals, I get along with conservatives, I get along with Republicans. I get along with everybody. Thats what I was  Im a businessperson. I get along with everybody. We have to get along with everybody.
And I took some heat and I always explained that. I said, "Wait a minute, Im a businessperson. Ive got to get along with everybody." I live in Manhattan. Its all Democrat. I mean, its virtually all  Republicans dont even run people for the most part and if they do they get 5%. You know, they get a very small percentage of the vote. Got to get along with everybody.
I think thats going to be a tremendous asset because right now we have gridlock in Washington. We have people that  they dont talk.
You know, I remember that years ago because Ive been a very political person on the other side but always very political.
But years ago, the Republicans and the Democrats  they used to like each other. Theyd get along. Theyd have dinner together. Theyd argue and theyd fight and theyd disagree and would have, you know, different views and things.
But in the evening, theyd go out and theyd have dinner together with their families. You dont see that anymore.
Theres total hatred and theres total gridlock.
Ill give you one point, which I think is important. Corporate inversions. Right? So you have companies leaving the United States and theyre leaving because of better taxes and better a lot of things. A lot of things are better. But theyre leaving. Pfizer. How good is Pfizer? Thousands and thousands of jobs are going to be lost.
But theyre also leaving because we have $2.5 trillion at least  I think its a much higher number than that. $2.5 trillion  thats out of the country that these companies cant get back because of bureaucracy and horrible trade agreements but because the taxes are too high. Theyre so onerous that nobody in this room would agree to pay that much money to get your money out.
So they leave it over there and they actually take the company and they move the company to the money because thats how much money.
The Republicans and the Democrats totally agree that the money should come back. For three years they cant get a deal. Theres no leadership. Its gridlock.
Theres an example of something where everybody agrees  all the people that you see up here they all agree but they cant get it done because theyre politicians. Theyre all talk; theyre no action.
So theres something and its so important. Its not like something where they dont get  like theres big disputes and we understand that. This is something everybody agrees  the money should pour into this country and we should use the money and all the things  taxes paid.
But they agree and they cant get it doen because of gridlock and incompetent leadership.

You know, honestly, I dont think anybody can say. She says she is. But now she says all of a sudden maybe less so than you thought because shes going very, very far over to the other side.
I mean, Bernie Sanders has brought her to positions that she didnt want to be at. You look at some of the things that shes saying right now.
But Ill tell you what, whether she is or not, she doesnt have the strength or the energy to help Israel. Im telling you she doesnt.
But just take a look. Shell come out and do an event and you dont see her for another four days, three days, five days. No, its true.
Think of it. We dont need  some people say its not nice to say. She doesnt have the strength or the energy.
Israel needs more than just our support. They need strength. They need real power behind them.
Because you know, you look at as these countries fall over there, Israels looking more and more  you know, Israel has some difficulties.
And one thing and I think youll all admit it. These people are fighting really dirty but they fight a lot better than we used to think. Right? We used to think "Oh, that was easy."
15 years ago with my friends from Israel because I have a lot of friends from Israel, they used to smile and laugh "Oh, dont worry about it." Now theyre saying, "These guys are  theyre dirty fighters." And theyre not bad. You know, theyre tough. Theyre not the JV. Okay? Obama said theyre the JV. Theyre not the JV folks.
We need tough. We need General George Patton. We need General MacArthur. We dont need the guys we have. I see them on television  generals. I dont want my generals on television saying "Well, ISIS is very tough."
I saw a guy the other day. ISIS is very tough. I dont know. I dont need that.
Do you think General George Patton  they dont like him because he was a foul mouth vicious horrible brilliant guy. So he would never make it. They probably would have had him thrown out years ago.
But we need Patton. We need a genius like MacArthur.
And we have those people. We have those people. Ill find that person.
But were going to knock the crap out of them, Ill tell you what. Were going to win. Were going to win. Were going to win.

Well, I think radical Islam right now is, and I feel thats the greatest. And again, we have a president who refuses to use the term.
But radical Islam is  Ill tell you one thing I know isnt is global warming. Thats the one thingI know isnt.
I mean, we have a guy that just the other day who said  here they want to blow everything  this is right after Paris. They want to blow our cities up. They want to destroy our civilization, and hes worried about global warming, which a lot of people think is a hoax.
By the way, I won so many environmental awards shockingly. No, its true.
And you know what I want to do? I want really immaculate air. I want clean, crystal water. I want a lot of things. Okay? I want a lot of things.
But global warming  you noticed they changed the name  they go global warming, they go climate change, they go  now I hear a lot of extreme weather. How can you miss with extreme weather, right? If its cold, its okay. If its hot, its okay. If its windy, if its hot  everything is extreme. So now they use extreme weather. It is a disgrace whats going on.
And to have this man embarrass us by standing up and saying that global warming is our biggest threat, we got to get him out so fast and thank goodness we only have a year left.
Thank you. Thank you very much everybody.

Its a great honor. I want to thank Simon and Schuster, one of the most magnificent publishers. For years and years, Ive heard about Simon and Schusters being a fabulous  I was going to say the Rolls-Royce, I was going to say the Harvard or the Yale, but they really are a great one. And I want to thank you very much. Youve given us such tremendous support.
And we did this quickly and I think we did it very effectively. Its been an incredible experience.
We wrote a book and the title  "Crippled America"  is very tough but unfortunately we have to do what we have to do and I think one of the reasons weve been doing so well in the campaign is because we tell it like it is. We tell the truth.
And America is crippled. We owe $17 [trillion] and now $18 [trillion] and now its actually very soon going to be $19 trillion in debt.
We have a military that doesnt have proper instruction from leadership. We dont know what were doing. Were losing all over the world with trade deals. Every country, no matter what country you talk about, you can just pick a name out of a hat, theyre beating us in trade.
And we cant go on like this any longer. Its impossible to go on like this any longer.
I always mention as an example Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor. We get Sergeant Bergdahl; they get five of the people they wanted and they wanted badly. And thats not the way its going to work anymore.
So we write about it in the book. We tell lots of different stories of lots of different things. And I think its going to be very instructional, very important.
To me, it was instructional.
When I did "The Art of the Deal", I think one of the reasons it was so successful is that it was largely instructional. Even today when I speak, so many people hold up the book "The Art of the Deal" and the other books weve done.
So this is one that probably not since the Art of the Deal, I have to tell this to Louise and Simon and Schuster, have I worked so hard on a book and it was in a confined period of time. We wanted to get it out really, really quickly so that it pertain to whats going on right now. Its a moment of time. And we got it done.
And David did a fantastic jobAnd all of my people did a great job. They helped me so much because we are doing a couple of other things right now. So this was not easy getting this in.

But we see by the lines  the lines go down to Park Avenue. Theyve been forming since last night and Im going to be signing books starting at 12 p.m. Were doing a couple of interviews and then were signing books starting at 12 p.m. and thatll be very exciting for me.
But we have fans that have bought the book and they just bought it and some have been online now for 12 and 14 hours. I dont know how theyre doing this but they do it. They find a way.
So Im looking forward to getting to the signings.


Well, I think its a different book. You know, we just had polls come out today from Iowa where Im leading. You saw the new poll from Iowa. You saw the new poll in New Hampshire where Im leading big.
A poll just came out in Florida where Im leading big. Georgia, Texas. I mean, all over the place.
And I think you know look were doing well. And if you add Ben and myself were beating everybody by a lot. That seems to be the big story that were beating  they call it the establishment. Its called really the failed establishment because the establishment has let us down.
But I dont know. I dont know how his book is doing.

Well, I think my book is very hard-hitting. His is a different kind of book and hes a different kind of a person. My book is very hard-hitting. It says it like it is. And based on what Simon and Schusters just told me, its selling like hotcakes. So well see.

Were very different people. We have very different qualities and we are extremely different. And Im different from all of the other candidates.
Look, nobody can negotiate trade deals like me.
We are going to take the $400 billion a year that were losing with China, thats going to be turned around. The $75 billion a year that were short on with Japan.
The $50 billion a year that we lost to Mexico. And thats right, there will be a wall built. It will go up. It will be built. And people will come into the country legally.
So I mean, much different than  youre look at Marco Rubio  very, very weak on illegal immigration.
You look at Ben and hes very weak on immigration and he wants to get rid of Medicare. I mean, Ben wants to get rid of Medicare. You cant get rid of Medicare. Itd be a horrible thing to get rid of. It actually works. You get rid of the fraud, waste, and abuse. It works. So when a man is weak on immigration and wants to get rid of Medicare, I dont know how he stays here.

No, I think that really Marco is over-rated. And frankly had Bush been a better messenger, he has the better message. I mean, if that was me delivering that message it would have been a much different story because he hasnt been able to  Marco doesnt show up to the United States Senate. Hes representing the people of Florida, which by the way that poll just came out today and Im way up in Florida over everybody.
But Marco is a sitting Senator and he doesnt show up for the people of Florida, and I dont think he should be doing that.
Now, Bush gave a very weak message. I agree with that. It was poorly delivered. But the facts are on Bushs side and ultimately I think Marcos going to be hurt very badly.
And if you look at Mr. Singer, you have to see where Mr. Singer is coming from and when you see where hes coming from, I think people are going to say, "Whoa, we didnt know that."
But look at Marcos stance on illegal immigration. Its really trouble for him. I dont see how he can win.

Marco Rubios personal finances are discreditAll you have to do is look at his credit card. I mean, he is a disaster with his credit cards. And Ill tell you what, I love Florida. Im in Florida all the time. And for years, Ive been hearing that his credit cards are disaster. I would think that when you take a look at it, you would find that.
But his credit card debt and his problems with credit card and what he did when he was running the party apparatus with credit cards, Ive heard about it for years. Youll have to find out.

Well, he has a very bad record of finances if you look at what happened with his houses, with his  you know, he certainly lives above his means. Theres no question about that.

Ill tell you what. On the debates, its very interesting. Because I dont really care that much. I want a room. I want a podium. And lets get going. Because I dont really care that much.
But a lot of the people that are candidates who I respect  many of them, not all of them  but I respect many of them, they felt it was very unfair because Hillary Clinton was given all soft balls. I mean, she wasnt asked one tough question. They didnt talk about her foundation. They didnt talk about any of the problems. They didnt talk about the emails. When the email problem came up, Bernie Sanders lost his whole campaign. I mean, what he did was so stupid from his standpoint. In order to get a one-minute soundbite of some applause, he gave up the emails. That was end of his campaign.
First of all, people arent going to his rallies anymore. Hes finished.
So unless something happens to her with respect to the emails, shell easily be the candidate.
But I will say this: She only got softballs. Thats all she got.
And if you look at the way we were treated, it wasnt the same way.
With that being said, I dont really care.

Well, I think the Republicans actually are doing a pretty good job overall. They coalesced at that last debate because I mean, it really started with me. The guy asked me a question. I think Harwood is probably finished as a credible reporter. Hes a disaster. And he was  it was such as horribly put question and so obvious.
And the Republicans coalesced around each other. It was actually pretty beautiful when you think about it.
And all we want to do is to be treated fairly.
But with me, I dont care that much. Just give me a podium.
What I would say is this: The networks have made a fortune because of me, not because of anybody else.
You know, they were saying that the last cycle, they had 2 million and 1 million people and the networks didnt even want to broadcast it because nobody watched. Okay? Nobody wanted to watch.
Now, they have 25 million people, 24 million people, 23 million people and 16 million people. I mean, give me a break.
So somebody said, "How did they get there?"
And actually Variety and Hollywood Reporter, who do report this stuff pretty well  much better than the political press  they said "solely for one reason  it was Trump". Ill take the credit.
But Ill tell you what I also want. I think that Wounded Warriors and our veterans should be given some of the enormous profits being made on these debates  enormous profits  by the way beyond anything theyve ever envisioned.
CNN was going to get $2,000 for a 30 second ad. They ended up getting $250,000. So they went from $2,000 to $250,000 for a 30 second ad.
The networks and the cable are making a fortune, and I think they should give some of the profits to the Wounded Warriors and the veterans. Thats what I want.

Im giving them away. Im giving the profits of my book  Im giving them away to a lot of different  including the vets.

I have been amazing with respect to the hiring of women. This building was built as the head person who was fantastic by a woman and that was at a time when you didnt see that in the construction trades. I mean, it was totally unique.
I have many, many executives upstairs and in different buildings that I have that are women. Many  a proportion thats close to 50%. Might even be over 50% if I analyze it. And they get paid a lot of money  in many cases more than men doing the same job.
So women have always appreciated that about me. Ive been in terms of employment really a standout and Ive been honored for doing so well with women.

What Jeb Bush was saying at the last debate? I dont know. But he didnt say it well.

I like Telemundo by the way. I like it better than Univision. Im suing Univision for $500 million.
Because the country is doing so poorly. Its a very accurate title because the country is doing so poorly.

Thats good. Theyre going to have some demonstrations. Oh, good because itll get even higher ratings if they do that. I think its fine. I think they should demonstrate. Ratings will go even higher than they are going to be. Its going to be one of the highest rated shows ever. And theyre very excited about it.
And I have a great relationship, as you know from Telemundo, with the Hispanics. Youve treated me actually very fairly. Won the poll recently in Nevada. Won other polls. And in Nevada, I think I got 37% and leading everybody.
So I have a great relationship with the Hispanics. I have working for me thousands right now  thousands of Hispanics. Ive had tens of thousands of people over the year working for me. Im a job machine. Im a job machine.
And one of the things that does come out in every single poll and every single survey is that nobody for the economy nobody is even close. Im two, three, and you see that  two, three, four, five times greater than anybody else.
And youd almost say like its about the jobs, its about the economy. Then hows anybody going to beat Trump in all fairness?
But Ive had a great relationship with the workers. Ive had a great relationship with jobs. And Ive had an amazing relationship with the Hispanics. And I predict that Im going to win the Hispanic vote.

I think Im going to win the Hispanic vote. I predict, yeah, I think Im going to get the nomination and I will win the White House. I think beating Hillary Clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad.

Thats the question I like. How am I preparing for my SNL? Well, Im meeting with Lorne Michaels in a little while. Afterwards, were going to sign  I guess got thousands of people on line but were going to sign and then later on this evening Im meeting with Lorne Michaels and the whole staff and well start the preparation. Well pick our skits. Am I nervous? Not too nervous. Not too nervous. But were going to do a good job and were going have a fantastic show. Were all going to have a lot of fun.

My Jeb impression? No, I dont want to do that. I dont like showing a person sleeping at the podium.

Tom is asking "Can Jeb make a comeback?" I think its going to be very hard. Very hard. Not about money. I just think  you know, I came up with the energy. And I just think we need tremendous energy because we need a person that has tremendous personal energy to get us back on track. You cant do that when you dont have that.
I think Marco is highly overrated. Highly overrated. He doesnt have it and all you have to do is look at his stance on things.
Jeb  he lacks the quality that you need.
Were talking about everybody in the world is ripping us off. You need a very strong person with tremendous energy. Thank you very much folks, Ill take the job.
But and its so important. And by the way, Ben Carson does not have that energy.
We need somebody with tremendous energy to straighten out the military, to straighten out ISIS, to straighten out our horrible trade deals, to terminate Obamacare and come up with something far better for far less money. You need somebody with tremendous personal energy as President.
We have a president right now that doesnt have energy. I mean, you think Obama has energy? He has no energy. And hes been a horrible president.
We need somebody with great personal energy as a leader so that we can make great deals with other countries and do well in every other respect. And certainly Jeb does not have that energy in my opinion.

From the Guardian. Ah, they treat me very nicely in Scotland. Go ahead.

Well, we just went over that. Honestly, we just went over that. And its only going to make it harder.

Youre going to see what were going to do. Youre going to see. But the whole thing with anchor babies, I turned out to be right. A person has a baby, lives in Mexico or lives in Asia or lives in many different place, has a baby, walks across the border, has the baby here. Now, were responsible for that person for the next 85 years. I dont think so.
And by the way, I was right, they were wrong. The 14th Amendment does not give them clearance on that.
And if you wanted to do that in Mexico or if you wanted to do that in almost any other country where you have a baby in that country and that country has that person for 85 years including all of the costs of that person, they would laugh you right out of the country. You would be laughed out of the country so fast.
So, that turned out  I was 100% right. Well have to worry about that. Were going to take care of it, and its going to be done in a very humane way.
But were going to bring back our country and were going to have a wall and Mexicos going to pay for the wall and you know why theyre going to pay? And I have great relationships with Mexico and phenomenal relationships with the Mexican people. Phenomenal. And they buy apartments from me; they work for me by the thousands  by the thousands. Phenomenal relationships.
But let me just tell you we lose so much money with Mexico in terms of trade imbalance  $45 billion last year. Plus, we give Mexico billions and billions of dollars. They will pay for the wall. And it will be very interesting.
And you know what? People are going to come into this country but theyre going to come in legally.

A lot of European countries are going to build walls to stop the immigration.
Well, walls work. All you have to do is ask Israel. Walls work if its properly constructed. Not the walls that these characters, these politicians that we have running our country who are a disgrace  all talk, no action politicians  they build a wall this big, they drive cars right through it.
Walls work. All you have to do is go and see Israel. They will tell you that walls work.

We need pomp and circumstance. Our country has no spirit. Our country has no gravitas. Our country doesnt feel good about itself. And the primary reason is we have no victories. I mean, where have we had a victory? Where have we had a victory in trade? Where have we had a victory as an example this horrible deal that was signed with Iran where weve given them $150 billion and we lose everything. We lose everything. Its a laughing stock. Worst deal. Worst contract Ive ever seen drawn.
We have no victories. And I do write about it. We need some pomp and circumstance. We need spirit. We need a cheerleader.
I thought seven years ago when Obama got elected, the one thing I thought that he would be a great cheerleader for this country. Hes not. Hes been a great divider for the country. Hes been one of the great dividers of all time.
Im not saying dress. It has nothing to do with dress. It has to do with the fact that what he says is very divisive. He has been a great divider for this country, and that should not have happened.

Ill go anyway they want. I dont care too much about the debates. Look, Im the one that gets all the nasty questions anyway. Nobody else gets the really nasty questions. In a certain way, maybe theyre defending me although I will tell you theyre not doing it for that reason.

I think its irrelevant. I just  I like the debates. Ive had the debates. Ive done well in the debates. As you know, every single poll said I won all three debates. Now, I dont know if I did or not but I certainly didnt do badly. But every single poll says  even CNBCs poll said I won the debate.
So I like the debates. I think theyre good for me. But we have to be treated a little bit fairly.
As an example, Hillary Clinton  no tough questions. I mean, why didnt they ask about Bill? Why didnt they ask about all of the different things. No tough questions. Now, that was staged by the Democrats. And frankly, they did a very smart thing in the way they staged it.
Well, were going to stage something properly also.
But as far as Im concerned, I really dont care that much. I just want a debate. I think debating is a good thing. Its healthy. Gets everything into the open.
But you dont want people like Harwood that read a question  blah, blah, blah  that he wrote  that he carefully wrote. He thought he was such  his career  in my opinion, his career is probably ruined or certainly threatened.
He could ask about anything you want. I mean, you have to ask about anything you want. Hillary had only softballs. All night long. It was like this  "Here, Hillary, hit this one out of the park."

Are you from Russia? All right. I think our relationship with Russia will be very good. Vladimir Putin was on 60 Minutes with me three weeks ago. Right? Putin. And they have one of the highest ratings theyve had in a long time. So Im going to give him total credit. But we will have a very good relationship I think with Russia.
Now, maybe we wont. But I believe we will have a very good relationship with Russia. I believe that I will have a very good relationship with Putin.

Sounds okay to me.

Well, I think there are a lot of economic issues. We didnt talk about trade. We didnt talk about devaluations. Right? We didnt talk about corporate inversions, which by the way, none of the other candidates, they dont even know what it means.
But we didnt talk about corporate inversions where companies are leaving our country  massive companies  because they cant get their money back and because they get lower taxes elsewhere. So theyre leaving and theyre taking their jobs with them.
The corporate inversion syndrome is a very important thing to be talking about.
These were all things that werent talked about at the debate. Instead, they talked about fantasy football. I mean, it was a big question  fantasy football. Im saying what about corporate inversions? $2.5 trillion at least. I think its probably twice that number is in other countries wanting to come back and because our system is so corrupt and terrible, they cant get the money back to invest in this country.
So they dont talk about corporate inversions at the debates. They talk about fantasy football. Those are the few.

I was against the war in Iraq. You know, it was very early on. Ill give it to you. Yeah, I have it upstairs
Well, you know, you have to understand, I was a developer. A lot of people didnt care about my view in 2003 and 2004. But there was a Reuters article taken from a magazine about my stance in 2004, I believe, in July of 2004 and it talked about my stance on how I felt about Iraq. And I said very strongly exactly what happened. I said you will destabilize the Middle East and when you destabilize the Middle East, Iran will take over Iraq. Thats exactly whats happening. And they will take over the oil reserves, which are among the largest in the world, and in addition other bad things will happen. The other bad things are ISIS. I said that in 2004 and that was an article that was taken from a magazine which was previous to that. Ive felt that for a long time.

Do I think that its time for some of the other Republicans in the race that registering zero  in a couple of places they have a zero with an arrow pointing left, which I assume is a mistake because thats less than zero. I assume thats not happening. Do I think its time to have some of the other Republican candidates drop out? Yes. There are too many people. Well, I dont want to get personal but you can look at the poll numbers.
Look, if a person is campaigning for four or five months and theyre at 0% or 1% or 2%, they should get out.
Like, you know, look at me. I go to Florida and look at the numbers that just came out in Florida. 37%? Georgia. I mean, those are real numbers. These numbers that these people have  and I often ask myself. I asked Mark yesterday, "What are they doing? Do they do this for their brand? Because I happen to think its very bad for their brand."
I think [Scott] Walker did a good thing. I think the way Walker  he saw it wasnt happening, wasnt going to happen and he just got out quickly. You know, he was favored. Dont forget. You know. That was before Trump was going to happen. Right? But he was favored for a period of time. Favored. Walker. Gov. Walker. They thought he was going to win.
What happened is he got out.
I think the way he got out was great. I think he did a really smart thing for himself.
And frankly, other people should get out because I would like to personally have more time to talk about the problems of the United States and more importantly how we can solve the problems. So its a great question. People should get out.

Ivanka. Oh, they just said one of the biggest applause lines  its true  I get is when I talk about my daughter Ivanka. She was just at Fortune Magazine for like something like Woman of the Year which is greatBut Ivanka is going to be very involved and Melania is going to be very involved very soon. Theyre going to be coming out very soon.

Oh, Ivanka is going to Iowa. When are you going to Iowa? Very soon.

I would say  I dont see threats. I mean, whatever it is I have to do. Mark is saying "What are the top threats to your candidacy?" Who knows? I mean, youre in the crazy world of politics. People change their minds.
Im going to make America great again. Nobody else is going to be able to do that. Im going to do it.
Im going to make it in my opinion better than ever before, and I think thats awfully tough to compete with.
And one of the reasons that in my book I actually put financials in there  I showed some of the developments that  I have many, many more because you can only  Simon and Schuster  you actually kept me to eight or nine pages. Right? And there are four or five in a page. But I show some of the great developments that I have done that are so successful and so incredible and so financially good, I show my financial statement from a year and a half, two years ago. Now its even better but we didnt have that certified yet.
So I do that not in a braggadocious way. I do that because thats the kind of thinking our country needs right now.
We are run by people that are incompetent. We are run by people who in so many words  I hate to use the word stupid but you have to use that word. Unless they have bad intentions which I dont believe they do. But we are run by incompetent people. We have incompetent leadership.
There are so many things. Like I mentioned corporate inversion. The Democrats want the money to come back. Who doesnt? The Republicans want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats have said we want the money to come back. For three years, the Democrats and the Republicans agree 100%. You have a vast majority. Maybe everybody. For three years. Guess what? They havent done anything. Right? They cant even get along when they agree.
So heres the thing where we can take trillions of dollars, bring it back to this country, rebuild big parts of our country with it, companies can spend that money in our country, we have everybody agrees it should be done for years and they cant do it. Thats a part of the problem.

Well, youre going to look  a lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. A lot of controversy with Mr. Singer. There are those people that probably wouldnt have want him to back. But well see. Ill talk to you.

No, they all agree. They all agree. They just didnt want to go through the unfair questions because they werent questions; they were statements.
You see, they were asking  they were giving statements in a sarcastic, disgusting way.
And by the way, I think Becky is terrific and I think Carl is terrific. But I think John Harwood is not very good at what he does. But I think Becky Quick is a terrific person. I think Carl is a terrific person. But I will tell you John Harwood was a disgrace to CNBC.

The question is should the Fed raise rates? They are not raising them because Obama has asked them not to raise them. In my opinion, he wants to get out of office because we are in a bubble and when those rates are raised, a lot of bad things are going to happen or potentially going to happen. And in my opinion, Janet Yellen is highly political and shes not raising rates for a very specific reason because Obama told her not to because he wants to be out playing golf in a year from now and he wants to be doing other things and he doesnt want to see a big bubble burst during his administration. Janet Yellen should have raised the rates. Shes not doing it because the Obama administration and the president doesnt want her to. And if she does it, you see what happens every time theres even a thought of raising them just a little bit.
And one of the problems that we have is our currency right now is not competitive with other currencies. Because if you look at the devaluations of China, of Japan, of many, many different countries, theyre making it impossible for our companies to compete with them because we dont have leaders that know how to say to China, "Dont do that. Dont do that. Because if you do that, were going to put a big fat tax on you. Dont do that." And you know what? If you said that, they wouldnt do it. If you have the right messenger

Im really focused on one very big election, one very important election, and there are some pretty good elections. Im not watching any of them in particular. Ill be watching them on Tuesday night. But Ill be out there; well be out voting.
But the election that Im watching is the election for the presidency of the United States. That is going to be in my opinion this will be truly one of the most important elections weve ever had in this country. Were so far behind. And we cannot go another four years with incompetent leadership.

Thats a good question. Okay. So, Simon and Schuster came up to me. They wanted to do a book. They wanted to do on success and how do you do this and how do you build it and thats what the book is largely about but we talked so much about the country. And I said, "Ill do it but we have to talk about the country."
What happened is they sent this incredible photographer up to do a book cover, do to a picture. And he did some greatphotos. Im smiling. Im happy. I look good. Everything was fine. And then he took one where I wasnt like really thinking about a photo and then it turned out to be a nasty picture. And then the book was written and the title was given and the only really terrible picture I had was that one. Its a terrible, horrible, nasty picture. But when youre talking about "Crippled America" and youre talking about all of the problems we have, I cant have a big smiley face up there. So thats how we picked it. We picked the worst photo taken of me.
I would have loved to have a beautiful smiling picture but somehow that doesnt go with the title of the book or frankly the content of the book, and actually Simon and Schuster agreed with me. Okay?

Are the other Republicans afraid to debate? Well, some of them should be.
Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.

I was telling some of the folks backstage, I never ever thought wed do this well this fast. This has been so incredible. Whats happened all over. Whats happened in Iowa. Its been really incredible.
Weve had some amazing results and they continue to come in.
Got a little shake-up in Iowa. I dont know whats going on.
Somebody said "Are you going straight to New Hampshire?" Now, I love New Hampshire. Weve got great numbers. 38 to 12. Thats good.
But we fell a little behind in Iowa, and some people are saying how can it be. And I come out and I was just telling a group we have the biggest crowds, we have the most enthusiastic crowds.
Everybody said and its very true. I mean, look at this. Somebody else would come, theyd have like 50 people and they wouldnt need this room. Believe me.
But everybody said without question in every poll  this isnt just here  that the people that are with Trump are with Trump. They dont go anywhere. Theyre staying. Its true. I see it. I see it.
And weve seen it.
You know, a couple of times I say "Well, that could be the end." Then they do something and Im 10 points up. Its the craziest thing, right? But well take it.
But they say the people are with  we have the most loyal people by far. Everybody says it.
The other thing they say is for leadership, number one. Very important, right? Dont you think? Leadership.
I mean, when leadership is number one  they say on the economy without question number one and by a lot.
So you know its great.
I thought Id talk a little bit and I want to take some questions. You know, we can do a little question and answer. Right?
We have all these cameras going back here. And you know, its always tough when youre on live television all the time.
Look, we have 10 topics. Right? How many topics? 10? How many different ways can you talk about the 10 topics?
The bottom line is we want results. We want to get it done. But when youre on live television all the time all those people back there and the cameras are on and then youre talking about immigration and youre talking about the wall because were going to have a wall and were going to stop illegal immigration.
But we talk about trade and we talk about repealing Obamacare. And we talk about all the things that we talk about.
But you know, you have these points and we could talk about them in different forms, in different ways and give different examples. But in the end, its really about results. Isnt it? Its really about results.
And you can only talk about the same subjects on live television so many different ways.
I talk about industry. I talk about commerce. I talk about how were losing our jobs to all of these different countries. And I give different examples.
But its still going to be a certain number of subjects.
I talk about Second Amendment. I talk about Fourteenth Amendment. We talk about amendments.
You know, that Second Amendment, they want to take it away from you. They really want to do things and its not going to happen. Its not going to happen. At least with me its not going to happen. That I can tell you.
So I said today you know well talk for a little while but I want to do some questions and answers. I want you people to excite me for a change. Is that okay? I want to be excited. And so were going to have some fun. Were going to do that.
A few things  I want to bring up a few new subjects.
So, immigration, were going to be doing a very strong number. Its killing us. Its killing us. And its bad for the economy. Its bad for  all of this illegal immigration.

And I have to tell you legal  you come in and were going to have a good time and youre going to be there and youre going to do great  and visas  maybe work, maybe there are cases where you need people in and well do something, were not going to hurt our economy in any way, shape or form. Were going to make our economy much, much stronger.
But were also going to get jobs for people that are here. People with us. Were going to get jobs. Were going to get jobs.
But the illegal immigration  you know, I did this and I made my determination  I took a deep breath. Because Ill tell you what, it takes courage to say Im going to run for president. It really does, especially in my case where I have a great business and I love my business. I love doing it. I may never even see it.
I mean, I own some of the great properties in the world. Doral in Miami. I may never see it again Turnberry in Scotland, one of the greatest homes of the British Open and all of that. I may never see it again.
All of these incredible places that I have.
But more than that, it takes courage because when you do it, youre putting yourself out there beyond anything that anybodys done and it even takes courage for a politician to do it.
Now at some point some of these guys have to leave. Dont we agree? Its getting ridiculous.
Because like tomorrow night were having a debate, and I wish we had more time for the debate. Not in terms of three hours because who wants three hours? You know, I could stand up for 20 hours if I had to but who wants to watch that long?
Hillarys debate essentially lasted for an hour and a half and I was  oh  it was  you couldnt watch it.
You have Hillary against a socialist/communist. And honestly, hes not going to win. Just so you understandHes not going to win and neither is she
Well, shes being totally protected because in theory she shouldnt even be allowed to run. Shes being protected.
Its a tough game and its a nasty game but shes being totally protected.
But shes going to beat him and you still have one more of these guys. OMalley. So hell be out quickly, I guess. I dont know whats he doing. What do they do when they have zero? They have zero.
And I wouldnt say it against our folks. But theyve treated me  some of the zeroes have treated me so nastily, right? Because they want to start controversy and they want to try pick up some points.
And you know what? Im not going to even mention names. Usually I do. I love doing it. But everybody thats hit me so far has gone down. Theyve gone down. And theyve gone down bigly.
And a couple of the ones and zeroes  theyre the ones that hit the hardest. I mean, theyre like desperate people. But they hit.
One of them has a zero with an arrow pointing to the left. That means less than zero. And I dont understand. What does it mean? I assume its a typo but maybe not.
But when you look at the things that are happening with our country  the trade situation with not just China  I talk about China all the time because thats the main abuser, thats the biggest abuser. The numbers are astronomical. Almost $400 billion a year in terms of imbalance. Think of it  $400 billion a year.
And they send stuff over here but we cant send stuff over there. They tax us. Big tax.
A friend of mine cant get stuff over there. The tax is so big. Big tax.
Somebody bought an airplane in China here. Cant get it over there. Spoiled guy. Rich guy. Bought a beautiful plane. Cant get it over there because the tax is so massive that hes now selling in this country because China wont let him have the plane and he has to pay a tax.
I wont even tell you what the tax is. Its so astronomical that I dont even believe them myself. So Im not going to say it because those guys will say "Well, he was wrong." All I can tell you is its a massive tax. Like you dont buy planes here because if you do, you wont be able to get them back in.
And here, we accept all of their products.
So we have almost a $400 billion trade imbalance with China.
We have a $70 billion trade imbalance with Japan.
We have a  you know, with all thats going on in the South China Sea and you look where we have a destroyer  a relatively small ship  over there, I dont know if Id want to be the captain of that ship right now. But theyre being sort of mocked and scorned and a lot of bad things can happen.

But you know, we have an agreement with Japan and I love Japan. I love China. I love all these people. But their leaders are killing us because theyre smarter, sharper, more cunning.
The leaders of Mexico are killing us at the border and in trade. Theyre taking so many of our companies.
Even Nabisco  my Oreos  theyre taking Nabisco. Right? Im never eating Oreos. I tell it all the time. They had some Oreos before on the plane and I said I dont want to touch them. Bring them back. I yelled out to bring them back.
But Im not happy. Theyre leaving Chicago and theyre moving their big plant to Mexico.
So when you see this happening, we have to stop it.
And Im not going to beat around the bush and "Oh, lets talk and lets be nice and lets say  " Nobody can do it like I do it. Nobody. Honestly, nobody.
We can  Im not saying Im perfect because Im not perfect. Nobodys perfect
Now, nobodys perfect. But Ill tell you when it comes to that stuff Im really  theres nobody better.
Carl Icahn endorsed me the other day. Hes one of the great traders, one of the great dealmakers. He says Trump, Trump. And hes not somebody that just do it. He wants somebody that knows what theyre doing. He understand.
You talk about corporate inversions and all of the things that have been going on.
Corporate inversions. You know, many of the companies in this country have trillions of dollars cumulatively. They think $2.5 trillion overseas right now. They cant get it in.
And everybody agrees that we should bring it in. The Democrats and the Republicans. Theyve agreed for years. They cant make a deal because they have no leader.
Its not like "Oh gee, we disagree on Obamacare. Or we disagree on something else."
Although I must tell you many of the Democrats that I speak to because Im friendly with all of them. Im friendly with like Republicans. I get a long with everybody.
You know, everybody says "Oh, you wont be a unifier". Ill be the greatest unifier of all. Why is Obama a unifier?
But I will tell you many of the Democrats who voted for Obamacare would never have done it now and were lied to 28 times. Right? "You can keep your doctor, keep your plan, keep your this, everythings going to be great." Turned out to be a total lie. 28 different times that they know of and they wouldnt have done it.
But when you look at whats happening with corporations and the highest tax  we pay the highest tax anywhere in the world of any country  but they have trillions of dollars overseas. And these are great companies in many cases. They have thousands of employees. They cant get their money back.
And the reason is bureaucracy. Its very hard.
And also big reason the tax is too high. They dont want to bring $1 million back and pay $300,000 or $350,000 tax. Theyd rather leave it over there.
And if they bring it back, theyll be using it to invest in our country. I mean, a lot of good things will happen.
I happen to believe its more than $2.5 trillion.
But heres the thing and I use it because its so incredible. Heres the thing. Its not controversial. Its not like you have the Republicans here and you have  everybody agrees. Theyve agreed you know that for 2.5, 3 years. They cant make a deal.
And now whats happening and this will be the next great story is companies are leaving the United States  two reasons  lower taxes but also to get their money. Theyve got billions of dollars overseas. Theyre leaving our country in order to get their money and in order to pay lower tax.
And youre talking about one company I know of  I dont know how much theyve written about it  but youre talking about 6,000 jobs just one company. Youre talking about potentially thousands of companies.
And I say it, in the old days, theyd leave New York. People would move down and companies would move down to Florida or theyd move to Texas or theyd leave New Jersey, where taxes are quite high, and theyd move to another location. Right? Now, they leave our country and they go to other countries. Thats whats happened.
In the world of the Internet and the world of very fast jets, its a different world out there.
And theres no loyalty. Theyre paid a lot of money to make a lot of money for their shareholders and some of them are actually foreign; theyd like to move back to these countries.
They bring in executives that are from Ireland, from other places. And they dont mind. They dont have loyalty to the United States.
So my plan, my tax plan, is something Im very proud of. Were going to solve corporate inversion.
Ill tell you what, we will have that money back  if I get elected president, that money will be back so fast your head will spin. Nobody else will be able to do it. Nobody.

Honestly, nobody else even knows about it. The other candidates, most of them dont even know about it. Its not their wheelhouse. Okay? Its not their thing. Its not their thing.
Their thing is getting re-elected. Thats what theyre good at. They get re-elected. And they make promises and theyre all talk and theyre no action. And the same things happen with these politicians. Its always the same.
So we have so many different things and what Ive done with our tax plan, which something Im very proud of, weve brought it down to a few groups.
Because right now, you have to go out  people who arent doing well go out and hire companies to help them with their tax plans. Theyll pay $500, $1,000 because its so complicated.
And were going to make it nice and simple.
And were getting rid of carried interest, which is something that a lot of rich hedge fund guys love. But were getting rid of it. They dont love me so much anymore. But I dont care.
And were getting rid of a lot of things.
So were going to have a nice simple tax return.
Somebody said "Oh, why isnt everybody paying?"
You know, 40%  a big percentage  will not pay any tax at all. People that are doing badly.
They said  well, I wont use the candidates name because I dont want to insult any candidate when they cant defend themselves. They said "We want everybody to pay at least something." And I said, "I agree."
Heres the problem. From the standpoint of bookkeeping, from the standpoint of bureaucracy, youre talking about millions and millions of returns. Youre talking about building the IRS even bigger and its a monster. And I could cut it down way down. And the money that youre talking about is far less than the administrative costs.
So I said, "I agree. Except for one thing from a practical standpoint, its too much. Most of these people arent paying anyway."
What I want to do is bring our jobs back from China, bring our jobs back from Mexico, bring fairness to our deals as an example with Japan.
I was in Los Angeles. Ships  the biggest ships youve ever seen. Cars are pouring off into this country. Made in Japan. We give them practically nothing.
The balance is so bad. The imbalance is so bad. And then we have all the strikes.
See, what our people dont know and only somebody that wrote "The Art of the Deal" or does this stuff. Its natural. Its like a great athlete. Like a Jack Nicklaus. He was always able to sink that putt. Right? You know, hes just better. And you have athletes  very few  but there are some people that have a certain ability.
A lot of people dont even know we have all the power. We have all the power in China.
You know, we owe right now China and Japan equally $1.5  think of this  trillion. $1.5 trillion. Think of this. They take our business and in the case of Japan, mostly cars. But they take our business. They take our jobs. Factories close down all over the place. And we owe them money. Right? Its a magic act. For them not for us. For us its a horror show.
Its going to end. Its going to end.
And people like Carl Icahn and the people like the best negotiators  I know the best negotiators in the world. Some I think are horrible people. Ill be honest with you. I dont care. Do you care if theyre horrible people? Who cares?
Now, Carl happens to be actually a very nice guy but hes a brilliant negotiator and a tough cookie and hes built a fortune. He doesnt want money. He doesnt want to say, "Oh, give me $200,000 a year in government money." He wants to do it. Hes proud to do it. He wants to help the country. And its so easy for him.
For instance, if I say "Carl, do me a favor. The trade deal we have with China is so unfair were losing $400 billion a year. Carl, do me a favor. Make it fair." I dont have to give him a big speech. I dont have to give him a big speech.
I mean, I can tell you that within a very, very short period of time, things will straighten out. I mean, things will straighten out and its going to be our benefit.
But think of it, if were losing that kind of money  that imbalance. Its an imbalance. Some people will say "Thats not really a loss." It is a loss. If we have that kind of imbalance and suppose you brought it back to zero or even if we lost $100 billion a year, thats a lot of money. Believe me, I couldnt sleep.

If I brought it to $100 billion a year, get rid of me in four years, all right?
But suppose we brought it back to $100 billion or we brought it back to zero, do you know what that means to this country? Do you know the kind of money youre talking about? Then jobs will start coming back, lots of good things would happen. Lots of great things would happen.
And maybe our babies who have all these toys all over the place, maybe theyll have 75% and maybe theyll like them better. Maybe theyll be better. And theyll be manufactured here.
Whenever I order television sets, I ordered thousands and thousands of television sets a year for different jobs. And whenever I order them, they all come from South Korea. They make all the television  other than Sony but Sony has sort of lost its way a little bit. Sony is Japan.
But South Korea  LG, Samsung. I dont get bids from American. Id love to. Id love to.
George Will said theres a company in South Carolina that makes television. I said where are they? Id like to have a good name too by the way. Its important. You know, when somebodys paying you a fortune for a hotel room, its nice to see a good name. Right? Do we agree?
Well, its a company in South Carolina but they dont make them there; they assemble them. Theyll order parts that come in and theyll assemble them. But much different.
But Id love it if we made them.
But you take South Korea. We defend South Korea for essentially nothing. You have the maniac over in North Korea that nobody ever talks about by the way. Now, he really has nuclear weapons and we dont talk about him.
We made the worst deal ever made with Iran. Right? The worst.
These are the people that represent  these people are incompetent. Or stupid. Somebody said, "You shouldnt say stupid. Its not nice." But its true. Theyre stupid. I think. I mean, I think. Unless I dont know is there something going on that we dont know about?
Think of it. Point after point, we lost. We lost everything. Weve given them $150 billion. Hard to believe. They dont have to develop  I was telling somebody they dont have to develop nuclear weapon; they can buy it.
What the hell why should they develop it? They can buy it. And now all of a sudden theyre going into Syria. They got so much money. Theyre a terrorist state. Theyre going into all of these different places. Were fighting them in Yemen and yet were making a deal with them.
So why dont you say "Hey, Yemen out"? Our prisoners  I want them back. I want them back. I dont want them over there. I want them back.
And all we have to do, very simple, is if you have the right messenger. Im the right messenger. You know, Ive gotten to a point where I have to be braggadocious. Its terrible. Right? Because I cant be so nice and say "We can all do a wonderful job". People cant do those kind of stuff.
For instance, the wall. I said, I guarantee you that were going to build a wall. Its going to be a real wall. Were going to have people come through and theyre going to come through legally. Or theyre going to come through with visas, which is a safe way, if we need it.
And we want people to come through. I want people to come through. I dont want to say no.
But we have at least 11 million  you know, the scary thing is nobody has any idea how many. You know, weve been hearing that number for years. You know, like 11 million. We have no idea. I spoke to one of the top people. They have no idea. Might be 5 million. Might also be 32 million. Could be 50 [million]
But we have to get them out. We have to  look, its harsh.
Dwight Eisenhower  we all like Dwight. Right? Remember the expression. Right?
I go remember he got elected  "I like Ike". How could he be bad? All right? And I think he was a nicer general than MacArthur and Patton. And I like Ike as a president but I love Patton and I love General MacArthur. I love them. And were going to find ourselves a Patton and were going to find ourselves because we have a lot of smart guys in our military and women. Were going to find ourselves a PattonBut were going to find a Patton and were going to find a MacArthur. And Im really good at that. Were going to find great people.
And Ive told this story where I watched these generals go on television  they shouldnt be on television. They shouldnt be talking. You know? They shouldnt be talking. They should be doing.

And they asked a certain general, Im not going to insult him. It was like a month and a half ago. On a show. A talk show. I said heres general so and so, one of the top, top, top people. I said whats he doing on television? And hes saying "Well, ISIS is very tough. You know, they spread out."
By the way, they took the oil that I said take. Remember I said "Take the oil"? Always take the oil! Theyre being funded by the oil that I said take.
I dont want their damned oil. But you know what? It turned out to be another benefit of having it. Take the oil. And we didnt do it.
We shouldnt have been in Iraq in the first place. And I said that in 2003. Shouldnt have been there.
We totally destabilized the Middle East. We totally blew it.
But we were there. Then Obama announces because hes so predictable "We are leaving on a certain date in a year."
Right? I couldnt believe. I was sitting there thinking "Did he really say that?"
He said "We will have all troops out by a certain date." Right? Did he say that?
I said "No, no, tell me please."
Oh, you know what another one I got high marks on from every poll? Military. They think Ill be the best in the military because they say I  you know, I always say Ill be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I will. But everybody knows that, especially God. Everybody knows that.
But you know what Ill be? Ill be the great at the military. Ill be so good. And Ill know when  and Ill build our military so strong, so tough, so incredible, nobodys going to mess around. Were never going to have to use it. Were never going to have to use it.
And Im going to take care of our vets. Believe me, theyre our greatest people and our vets are not being treated as well as illegal immigrants. Im going to take care of our vets.
So go back. So the world is unpredictable.
I made a business deal a year ago. And the guy  oh, I beat him so badly. Aye, it was so beautiful. It was a beautiful thing. It was like a picture. For me, it was like a picture. Thats my own problem. I guess. But to me its like a painting when you could do something like that.
So I made this deal and it was great. And they called. They did a story on me recently and it was a nice story. And I said, I hope they dont call this guy. They ended up calling this guy "What do you think about Trump?" And he said but in a respectful way, he said "He won because he was so damn unpredictable. We dont know what the hell he was going to do." Thats a positive. Thats a positive.
I mean, if youre a poker player and youre predictable, youre not going home with much money. Okay?
But it was really  I said, "Thats not nice what he said." First, I said "Thats not nice. Im unpredictable." Then I said, "Wait a minute. He meant that as a compliment." And I called him. I said, "What did you mean by that?" He said "I think thats the greatest compliment I can pay. We could not figure you out. You came at us from 15 different angles."
So with Obama, when he announces that were leaving Iraq on a certain date, we shouldnt have been there but once you announced the bad guys  you know how they say the surge worked? You know why the surge worked? You know why? Because the bad guys all moved back. They said, "Hey, what do we have to get killed for?" I mean, these people dont mind being killed, can you believe it? But they said "If we dont have to, lets not." So they moved back.
And they said, "Hey, theyre leaving in -" What was the date? Do you remember the date? Specific date to the day. "We will have all troops out. Im a great president."
So the bad guys, meaning the opponents, whatever you want to call them, they just said, "Oh, youre leaving in a year. Going to have all the troops out. Lets go back. Why do we have to be shot at for the next year? And what do we have to do because if we do well maybe hell change his mind and stay. So lets let him think he has this great victory with the surge." Right? "The surge worked!"
What happened was that everybody pulled back. They said, "Lets wait."
Now we leave because of a lack of leadership. We leave and boom it comes apart. Thats what happened. That was the surge.
Everybody talk so much  "Oh, the surge was so great." The surge was great because everybody knew  they knew what was happening. They knew it was going to happen. They knew we were leaving even through Bush.
I mean, honestly, they knew we were leaving. They were fed up. So they pulled back and they said, "Lets get them out." Everybody wanted to leave.
Now, I would have done it differently. Even if I wanted to leave and I might or I might not. I wont even say.

People say, "Mr. Trump, whats your attitude on ISIS? When will you attack them? Where?
I say "You know, I dont want to talk  I have a real chance of winning. I dont want to tell you what my attitude. I want them to guess. I dont really want to tell you."
I mean, the one bad thing about our system, we have a system that got flaws. Lets face it. Hey, look at our leadership, its got flaws.
But you know the one bad thing? When I gave that answer, they say  although some people  I see it here  some people say "We love that. We love that." But when I give that answer, some people say "Oh, Trump doesnt know. He doesnt know. He didnt give an answer as to exactly what hes going to do. Exactly what hes going to do."
And I know exactly what Im going to do and eventually after I was asked the question by 10 different reporters, all of whom are here tonight by the way, I said, "You know, heres the problem. If I dont give the answer, Im not going to win because they write so incredibly negatively. So if I dont give the answer, Im not going to win." Theyre going to say "Trump wouldnt give us the answer."
They dont know its unpredictability. They dont know its strategy.
And I said for a period of time like a month, I said "I dont want to tell you because I actually have a chance because from the time I announced, Ive been on the top of the polls, almost at the top. You know, were doing well."
Iowa, will you get your numbers up please? Would you get these numbers up? I promise you I would do such a good job.
First of all, I am a great Christian and I am. I am. Remember that.
And I do well with the evangelicals. But the evangelicals left me down a little bit just last month. I dont know what I did.
But I am a great Christian. Im a believer and I believe in the Bible. And I even brought my Bible a month ago to a group signed by my mother, Mary, and with the address and the date  I wont tell you what date it was because possibly youd think Im younger than that. But she didnt want anybody taking my Bible because that was very important to her.
So cute. She has the address, has the date. But I said to myself, "You know  "
By the way, before I forget, will you get the numbers up Iowa please? This is ridiculous. I mean, what is my competition? In all fairness, in all fairness, what is my competition?
Do you think these guys  Im not going to say Carson  Im not going to say Rubio, who really is way down  I mean, I am second. Its not like its terrible. But I dont like being second. Second is terrible to me.
But do you think that Ben is going to go to China? These guys are fierce. Like theyd come into your office. Ive made many deals with China. Ive had great victories in terms of deals with China. They come into your office. Theres no "Hello. How are you? Its a wonderful day." They come in  "We want deal." Theres no games. I do this for a living. Im really good at it, folks. Really good.
And you know, when you talk about energy, Ill tell you one thing, everybody agrees  oh, do I have energy. Oh. I toss and turn thinking about how Im going to make the best deal for you folks. Ill be tossing and turning. I will be tossing and turning. Youre going to have so many deals that is so good for you. Were going to have numbers are going to be so good.
I always joke you may get tired of them but then I always take that back because nobody gets tired of winning.
We dont win anymore. You know, think about it. Do we win at all? Ever?
We lose with the military. ISIS beats us. Everybody.
We lose with trade.
When are we going to come back and say, "We beat China" on a deal? When are we going to come back, "We beat Japan"?
Do you know that everybody said "Oh, Japan. They have so power over us. They have so much power because we owe them $1.5 trillion and they send all those cars."
They have no power. If we ever say, "Listen, if youre not going to treat us fairly, we dont want your cars anymore", theyd go out of business, folks, theyre gone.
Same thing with China. China is not even doing that well. But they just lowered, they just devalued their currency. The biggest in two decades. And the reason they did it, they could never thought but we have so many other problems that they felt, "Oh wow, we can get away with this and its going to make it impossible."
Did you see the results yesterday of Caterpillar Tractor? Horrible. Because theyre not getting stuff out because everybody  Japan and China in particular  is devaluing their currency. Thats their number one weapon. And the stupid trade deal that were making doesnt even cover it. Thats their number one weapon and the trade that were making doesnt cover it.

So I only say this and you know what? People might say "Its terrible. Hes a terrible person, a terrible human being. But Im going to vote for him anyways." Okay, thats fine. Im actually a nice person.
I always say this  nobody can do this stuff better than me. And I know all the guys Im running against. Theyre wonderful people. Some of them I really like. But who cares?
I was talking to one of the candidates the other day. I was talking about corporate inversions and they didnt even know what the hell I was talking. They had no idea. Its not their thing.
And unless we stop all of the things that are going with other countries and unless we make great trade deals, were being eaten alive.
Thats why when you look at the phony numbers, we have 100 million people in our workforce that arent working. Our real unemployment rate is probably 30%. Its not 5.3%. That was done for politicians so theyd look good. Its not 5.3%. How can you have 5.3% when you have 100 million people?
You look for a job. If youre a young guy, that handsome young guy with the red hair, right therebut if he comes out and he goes into the workforce and he looks for a job and he goes through college and does well and then he cant get a job and when he gives up because at some point after months you give up, they essentially consider you employed. Its the most ridiculous thing.
We have a tremendous  tens of millions of people in that position. They cant find jobs. Theyre good people. They want to work. They cant. But its not reflected in the real numbers because the politicians want to look good.
So let me just before we talk some questions, Im going to talk about something Ive never really talked about it onstage but we should talk about it. Its called Super PACs.
Its one of the great scams of all time. Its one of the great scams.
So we sent out  I think I had  and its not me. People set them up. And I dont know. Maybe theyre setting up for my benefit.
Lets take me. A guy sees me, likes me, sets up a Super PAC. I dont talk to him. I dont do anything.
I think we had either 9 or 5 or 11. We dont even know. Theyre all over the place. Trump, Trump  one of them called The Art of the Deal PAC after the book.
They have all these PACs. And the money comes in. And what do they do with the money? I dont know.
And we arent supposed to call them or anything. Okay.
So, we wrote a letter  a legal letter  to I think either 9 or 11 last week saying we dont want their money, send it back because again, what do they do with it? If some guy thats having a hard time all of a sudden has $2 million sitting in a Super PAC, do you think hes going to take ads for Trump? Maybe and maybe not.
So we sent them a  its a scam, Super PACs, a scam. Its a disgrace that we have. A disgrace.
And Ill tell you I read a number with, as an example, with Ben. Ben is paying 70 to almost 80 cents on the dollar to raise money. So when you read he has all this money, hes paying a lot of money and thats not reflected yet. So when you hear they raised $20 million, theyre paying  now think of it, who pays  the number I actually heard was 79 but you know these guys will check them so Im telling you it may be off but you all know its a lot.
I think they said, 79 cents on the dollar. Think of it. To raise the money, they take 79 cents before they get to use the money for what it was supposed to be. Somebody is making a fortune.
I know in Romneys campaign, a couple of guys walked away with millions and millions of dollars. Millions. They became rich raising money. Its better than being a real estate broker.
For the people and real estate brokers, they take these massive percentages of the money they raise. Its a scam. Its a scam.
Now, in Bens case, his Super PAC is running Iowa. And let me tell you, the people that are running that Super PAC, even if it comes in small donations, those are the real bosses. Those are the bosses.
In the case of Jeb Bush, youre not supposed to deal with these Super PACs. Okay? So, it was in the Wall Street Journal the other day. He has a Super PAC fundraiser or something in a hotel and right next to it, he had his campaign ballroom. Did you read that? Two ballrooms. One here, one here, right next to each other by coincidence, of course. Theyre not supposed to be coordination. Theyre not supposed to be talking. Theyre right next to each other. And thats nothing compared to what some are doing.
Its a scam and it should be stopped. And its unfair to somebody like me that is spending my own money.

And what happened and I havent talked about this before but Im seeing whats going on. Its horrible whats going on. What happened is the last time they had the Super PACs, I actually think there was sort of a wall. You know, they called it the wall.
And this is a wall too. Wont be as good as the one Im going to build but its a wall.
But it was a wall and they didnt deal.
I mean, even though like Bush has a friend of his running his Super PAC, Im sure they never talk. Im sure. What do you think the chances are that they talk? 100% or 99%? 100%. Id say 100%. Id say 100%. Only a foolish person would say 99%. But whatever.
Theyre not supposed to. But they put a friend in there. They put other people in there. They put whoever. And thats the way it works.
And in some cases, I hear in Bens case, I hear in other cases, theyre literally running.
I mean, had Walker done this in all fairness because he had money in the Super PAC but he had no money in his campaign and he was unable to figure out this is what theyre all doing. Thats why hes out of the race because he couldnt figure it out.
The whole thing with Super PACs is a horrible, horrible scam. So I sent letters last week to as many as we could find. Theyre all over the place. We want you to close the Super PAC. We want nothing to do with it. We dont want to get advertisements. We dont want any of the money. Go home and ideally give the money back. They dont even have to give the money back from what I understand. They can keep it. Theyll probably if they actually raised money for me, theyll say "What a horrible thing he just said. I think were going to support somebody else." They could do that.
But the Super PACs have total control over the people running for office. Total. Nothing over me. Nothing.
I feel its very unfair. I feel its a very unfair situation.
Now, if they want, they could have full disclosure and everythingBut what are they doing with this whole thing?
And I think it makes dishonest people out of people that might be honest.
But the Super PACs are controlling your candidates  some more than others. Some are unbelievable.
And what the press should really do is take a look at how much money is left. When you read that Ben raised $1, how much is left after he pays all of the consultants and all of these people, how much is left to spend in the campaign. Youll be amazed. I mean, its so little.
Bush, its the same thing.
And Ill go over  there are other names. I know every one of them. But its a horrible thing thats taking place.
And again, last cycle, at least they went through the motions. Now, theyre not even going through the motions. Theyre not even going through.
And just remember when I have to negotiate with companies to keep them in this country so they build jobs here and they build their plants here and their factories here and they do all of the things here, when I have to do that, you know, John Deere, I paid them tens of millions of dollars. You can even check. I said to John Deere, "I want an endorsement." I dont know if theyll give me an endorsement. Ill tell you if they dont theyre not so smart. I guarantee no other person gave John Deere  I mean, I bought probably more than $10 million worth of John Deere equipments. I love it. You know why? Iowa. Iowa. I love it. I love it.
When we can. By the way, its a great company. Its a great company. But I buy a lot of stuff from John Deere because I have a lot of big developments that really require John Deere type equipment. I dont have to buy it from them. I could buy it from others. But I want to steer it to them when I can.
But we have to do something to clean up this political mess because its crooked stuff. Its crooked stuff. And its got to stop.
And its very unfair to people who go out and do it the way youre supposed to do it, including me. I think Im the only one thats self-funding. Im the only one putting up my own money, other than  I know its precious  people write in to DonaldJTrump.com or whatever and they send me checks like $20. I keep saying the woman for $7.50, $50, $100. I dont want their money. But if you send it back its totally insulting.
I mean, they always write letters too. They write these beautiful letters  "Mr. Trump, I cant afford much and I know you dont need it but Im sending $50 because thats so important what youre saying about the country." Its beautiful.
I mean, Ive seen such beautiful letters. And if I send it back, theres no letter I can write thats not going to be insulting to those people, really. "Dear Mr. So and So or Mrs. So and So, I dont need your money and thanks a lot but were going to do it ourselves." If I got that back, Id say "Who the hell does he think he is?"

So we take that and its something that I think is important.
So I always preface it by saying I dont consider that funding but Im self-funding my campaign and Im getting ready to put up millions, millions.
And something Im very proud of that I think its great and its you know really great, it hasnt gotten very much publicity, hasnt gotten much publicity, but I have spent less money than any other candidate. Okay? By far. I think. I dont know, probably a couple of guys that have nothing so they just go aroundBut I was told that I spend less. And I have the best results because in most polls Im number one.
Now, until Iowa came along, I said "every poll", and then Iowa  what the hell are you people doing to me? You know? You know?
Im telling you. They said, "Why dont you skip Iowa?" They told me that. Everybody said "Skip Iowa". All of the political geniuses.
A man just interviewed me back there, great reporter. Hes actually a great reporter. Of course, if he writes a bad story, I wont say that. But he is. Hes a great reporter.
And he said, "Would you ever think of maybe skipping Iowa going right to New Hampshire? And then youd go to South Carolina" where Im leading by massive  yeah, youve got to see the rallies there. Theyre incredible.
"But youd go to New Hampshire. Youd go to South Carolina. You go to Nevada. You go to the SCC."
I said I cant do that because I have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from Iowa that I think were going to win. I really do. I believe it. I believe it.
And I dont want to skip Iowa. I think were going to do well. I think were going to do great with evangelicals. I think a lot of things are going to come out over the next period of time that are not going to be so good for our opponents, honestly, and I think Im going to do great with the evangelicals because I am the real deal. I will tell you that. Im the real deal.
So I told these political pros, you know, I hate to say it but the last long number of elections on the Republican circuit, the person that won Iowa did not get the nomination. Okay? I want to take away some of your muster. You understand that.
So could we do  and please do me a favor? Let me win Iowa. And then Im going to win, Im telling you were going to win New Hampshire, and were going to win South Carolina.
A great poll just came out on North Carolina just a little while. A PPP poll. It was great. Some of you saw that. But great poll.
But were going to go on and were going to win. Were going to win.
And actually, one of the pundits  because you have some smart pundits and some very, very dumb pundits. A lot of pundits said "Hell never run. Hes not going to run." Theyre still trying to recover.
But one of the very smart one says "If Trump wins Iowa, its over." Its interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great.
And I thought it was good here. Come on. Okay, so thats the end of that.
But I want to tell you, will you  I refuse to say "Get your asses in gear." I will not say that. I will not say it. I will not say it because I dont want to use anything thats even a little bit off.
So will you please do me a favor and work with my people and go out on Feb. 1stand vote and give us a victory?
And if I win Iowa, were going to run the whole table and we are going to make such great deals and were going to have such a great military and were going to take care of our health care without that crazy Obamacare thats a nightmare.
So, Im sticking with you people. Im going to spend money here. I have a great team over here. And I will tell you Im going to spend a lot of time here and I really want to win Iowa and I think we should and its so important. And you know, its about time that Iowa could have a victory and let that person go onto a total victory. Okay? Not like over the last  right?
So, I love you all. I mean, were having fun. But I love you all. But I do mean it. Im going to stay here. Were going to work really hard.
When I heard the poll today, they said "What are you going to do?" I said, "Im going to work harder in Iowa." Im not leaving Iowa. Im not leaving Iowa.
Now, if I lose Iowa, I will never speak to you people again. That I can tell you.
Okay, lets do a couple of questions. Right? Come on.

You know, we have now and the numbers they just came out we have 50 million people in poverty in this country.
Now, you look like youre doing pretty well in all fairness. But still, we have 50 million. We have 46 million people and theyre getting food stamps. 46 million. Think of it. You know, we talk about how well were doing.
So we have 50 million  almost 50 million each between poverty, food stamps, and its got to end.
One of the problems  we dont have enough jobs in this country. Its very simple. You know, its so simple when you think about it.
Our jobs have been taken away.
And Ill tell you what else, middle income folks  their salaries havent gone up in 12 years. People are making less wages now than they were 12 years ago. And other things have gone up. So theyre really doing much worse than they were doing 12 years ago.
But thats an amazing stat.
But people  one of the reasons they say Im doing so well because I let people know were going to bring jobs back. Were going to bring industry and plants. Were going to bring it all back and nobody else can say that. Were going to bring it back because a lot of the folks in this room are doing worse than they were 12 years ago and theyre working.
Then the other thing, you have a lot of part-time jobs. I have some people that I know very well and theyve had a job for 20 years at the same place. All of a sudden theyre working part-time because of Obamacare because from an accounting standpoint, it just works better. They love the owners, the stores and things. They love the owners; they think the owners are great. But the owners are forced to make part-time jobs; they have part-time jobs. They work all their life. They have a wonderful company that theyre working for, and now all of a sudden theyre cut into part-time jobs because of Obamacare because of the rulings of Obamacare. And you all know what Im talking about.
So they end up being part-time workers and they dont want to be part-time workers. They dont even like the psychology of being called a part-time worker. And were not going to have that stuff anymore. Were not going to have it any more.
Were going to have real jobs and the numbers are going to go up. Believe me. The numbers are right now worse than 12 years ago and thats a shame

Tell you what, as President, I can guarantee it. As Trump, I can say Ill probably be able to pull it off anyway because they know it wont stop. Itll be easier to take Todd and just say, "Look, were going to work with you, Todd. Okay?" So will you get me that number and everything and well make sure that everything get  and somebody else  who else over here? You have problems with the VA also, huh? Terrible?
I hear only  I just hear terrible. And were going to solve that problem. You know, it can be solved.
The waits now for the VA are longer than theyve ever beenThe waits now are worse than theyve ever been. Thousands of people dying waiting for a doctor. Okay, dying.
And you find the same thing, you say. You have to use your own because they wont do anything.
So were going to take care of our vets and were going to take care of the VA and its going to be one of the things were going to be releasing pretty soon.
But one of the things were going to do with the VA, we have a lot of hospitals that arent doing any business. We have a lot of private doctors that could do more business.
Were losing a lot of our doctors because of Obamacare. Theyre retiring. Theyre leaving.
One of them  a friend of mine  said "I have more nurses working for me now more than before but I have more accountants" and the end result is a disaster; hes getting out of the business. Hes got nurses but hes got more accountants than he has nurses because the paperwork is so crazy.
So one of the things were going to do is if Todd or if you or if somebody has problems because of the wait  because the waits are unbelievable  5, 6, 7 days sometimes. Theyre going to a private doctor. Theyre going to go to a private hospital. Or a public hospital thats in the area. And were going to pay for that and its going to cost less money  its going to cost less money than the system we have now  and youre going to end up getting much better care. Its going to cost less and youre going to get better care

So the Keystone Pipeline, first of all, Id approve it because its thousands of jobs. Okay? I would approve it so fast, so fast.
And Hillary should have approved it.
You know, Hillary wanted to approve it but shes been dragged so far left, thats shes  forget it. Its a disaster.
So I would approve it.
But with that being said, I may want to make a better deal because you know what? Were bringing oil from Canada. Right? I may say, I want 10%. Were going to approve it but I want 10%, 15%.
Because the truth is that the Keystone Pipeline was better a while ago than it is now because we have so much because of new technology, we have so much energy underneath our own feet with the fracking and all of the other things that have emerged over the last five years, we have so much energy. And its great stuff.
We have really great quality, higher than Canada. You know, they have the tar sands, which is a problem for them. Very expensive to get it out.
We have great stuff. So I would approve it because I love the jobs of building it. I love the jobs of building it.
But I may just say, maybe we should get 10%, 15%, maybe 20% as that oil flows through our land. You know, maybe we should do that.
So Im going to look into that. But when I approve it  Ill tell you what, when I approve it, itll be a great deal for the United States. It wont be like  because right now, what were doing is were approving it, were not really getting anything. Theyre putting it underground, and thats actually good environmentally. Better than having trucks going down the road and everything else. Thats good environmentally. But were not getting  were not getting  anything much for it.
When I get finished with the Keystone, theyll be happy and well be happy. Okay?

Well, Ill tell you in all fairness, Ben Carson said yesterday or the other day that he wants to abolish Medicare. Okay? And you know what a disaster that is. Now, Im sure at some point, hell take it back. But he said he wants to abolish Medicare and one thing, people do like their Medicare; they do like it.
And you are bringing up a point that Ive heard before. Were going to look at a lot of different things.
But were going to save Social Security, were going to save Medicare and thats the way it is. Okay? Were not abolishing like other people.

Okay, its a lot of people but you know what? Its costing us $200 billion a year immigration in this country right now.
And Dwight Eisenhower is going to say he moved 1.5 million in the 1950s, early 1950s, moved them out.
We have tremendous illegal immigration problems. Dwight Eisenhower, nice guy, he moved 1.5 million people out of the United States. And you know what happened? He moved them right across the border and they came back and they moved them again and they came back. They moved them a third time, they came right back.
And then you know they were tougher in those days. They moved them all the way south  all the way south  and they didnt come back.
Now, we have to do it. We have no choice. We either have a country or we dont.
And I want them to come back. But I want them to come back with papers. I want them to come back legally. I want them to come back. The good ones. The good ones. But only the good ones.
We got some bad ones. Remember the heat I took with illegal immigration? Remember that heat? For two weeks. Rush Limbaugh said "He has received more incoming than any human being Ive ever seen." And then he double-downed
You know what? I took a lot of heat and then you had Kate in San Francisco, killed, shot in the back and so many others. And people started looking.
And let me tell you, we have some wonderful people over here and theyre here illegally but theyre wonderful people. Okay? And well try to get them back real soon and well do it through a legal process.
But we also have some really bad gang members. You know, some of the gangs in LA. Theyre made up of illegal immigrants.
And we have unbelievable police forces that dont get the respect that they should get. They dont get it. I mean, what they go through, its unbelievable. Theyre afraid to talk to anybody. They dont want to lose their jobs. They dont want to lose their pensions. They cant talk.
Now, let me just tell you something. You can always have bad apples. In this room, we have a couple of bad apples. Okay? I dont know who they are or where they are but you do. Probably mostly back there in the press.
But the police do an unbelievable job. And they know the gangs. You go to LA the LA cops. You got Chicago, the Chicago cops. These people are amazing people if they would be allowed to do their jobs. But theyre not allowed to do their jobs.
And were going to get the bad ones out of here so fast and theyre not coming back and I dont want to put them in our jails because I dont want to subsidize these various countries where they come from for the next 45 years. I dont want them in our jails. We have hundreds of thousands right now in our jails. I dont want them in our jails.
I heard a couple of these candidates saying, "Well, theyre  " Theyre such babies.
But you know what? Theyre talking about putting them in jail. Well, I dont want them. Our jails are over-brimming. I want to use our jails for people that are supposed to be there. Okay? And I dont want to put these really bad dudes  I mean, they are bad  I dont want to have to pay for them for the next 45 years. Okay?
And were going to deal very humanely with the good people and they are mostly good people. But weve got some real bad ones and theyre out of here. Your head will spin probably.
Somebody said the other day, "Whats the first thing youre going to do?" Well, were going to work immediately on repealing Obamacare.
You know, the one good thing about executive orders? The one good thing? You know, Obama signed an executive order where everybody just come in. Come in.
We have great border patrol people. I got to know them a couple of months ago when I went down to Texas to the border. Theyre great people. Theyre not allowed to do their job. They stand there and watch people walk right in front of them smiling at them. They want to do their job; theyre not allowed to.
So the executive order that President Obama signed, the one good thing about an executive order, in the first minute in office, I will counter-sign and revoke those executive orders. Theyll be revoked. The only good thing.
Its actually the only good thing about an executive order is that a new president can just do a signature and thats the end of that.
So were going to clean up our border. Were going to make it fantastic. Were going to be proud to be a country again and a lot of good things are going to happen.

We will support Israel 1,000%.
Israel feels so left alone and I know BiBi and a lot of my friends are from Israel and they feel so left out.
And so many people say, you know, I have so many Jewish friends where they say why did I support Obama? I think hes the worst thing thats ever happened to Israel. And we will support Israel beyond anything they ever have before. Okay?
Thats an easy one. Thats the easiest question of the night!


The wall is a big factor. 60%, 70%. The drugs are a great question.
We are going to stop drugs.
Look, I told you before  Mexico  $45 to $50 billion. Thats not including the drugs. The drugs that are coming across the border are beyond belief.
Did you see the picture last week where they had a little wall this big and they built a ramp for trucks to go over it with trucks? Did you see the picture? They think were playing games.
And Mexico is not helping us. Mexico is not helping.
Do you know if you want to become a citizen of Mexico  I love the Mexican people. I have many Mexican people and Hispanics working for me. In Nevada, Im number one. Im rated number one in the polls with the Hispanics. Everyones shocked.
Because the Hispanics that are here legally, those people they want me, they know Im going to bring jobs and everything else. They dont want people pouring in.
But I will tell you Mexico has got to help us.
You know, if you want to become a citizen of Mexicodo you know its one of the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of? And yet, people pour right through into us, into us. They call us the dumb Americans. Thats what they call us because of our leaders. They call us the dumb Americans.
If you want to become a citizen of Mexico, you could take the best person in this room, the most qualified, youre not going to do it. They dont do that.
And if youre there illegally and if you overstay your bound? Youre not going to be there illegally. But if you have a pass for two weeks and you overstay your bound, they have cops waiting for you. They have police that say, "You know you have one day left." I hear its unbelievable. Im impressed actually. Because to a certain extent, thats the way its supposed to be.
But if you want to become a citizen of Mexico, its impossible. They dont have anchor babies in Mexico. Youre born a baby in Mexico, its like bye-bye.
Here, youre born over here, "Oh, congratulations were taking care of the baby for 85 years." Not going to happen. Its not going to happen. No, its not going to happen.
By the way, this is important, I sort of lucked into this one. The 14th Amendment. It says right there  you know, everybody says you have to go through a whole process, itll take many years, you have to go through every state. You have to do another amendment. Its wrong. 14th Amendment covers it.
And some of the best legal minds in the world say "Trump is right." I said, "What? I am? I didnt know." I lucked into it. Every once in a while you luck.
The fact is somebody comes in illegally and they have a baby, were not responsible. Now, we may have a court case but were going to win it. And a simple act of Congress gets rid of it. And a lot of people didnt know that. Okay?
And the reason I said it can be possible because nobody could be foolish enough to allow a thing like that. How could it be possible? And were one of the only countries where that takes place.
And honestly, I use Mexico as an example because theyre so tough. If that happens in Mexico, they dont even know what youre talking about. What are you talking about? But with us? No good. Not going to happen anymore.


Well, you know, the amazing thing is that the politicians in this country live by a whole different standard when it comes to health care, when it comes to everything they have including what you just said about Social Security.
Our politicians live by a different standard and I think that shouldnt happen. And some of them tried to do it.
You know the story in Obamacare, they dont have to take it. They live by a different standard. And thats not going to happen. Everybodys going to live by the same standard. Theyre going to have the same standard as the poorest person in this room. Thats the way its going to be.

Its a good question. But do you know if I answer that question, wed have a big, big story. You know that, right?
You know, Ill tell you, it is a question thats asked a lot.
I know a lot of good people. A couple of people on the stage that I really respect, Ive gotten to respect.
But the truth is too early. I like to get things done first. Weve got to close the deal. I dont want to think about it.
There are a lot of good people. There are a lot of good people. Weve got to close the deal. Weve got to get it done. And to get it done, I want Iowa.
So good luck everybody. Thank you very much. I love you. I love you. Thank you. And well be back. Thank you.

So, were going to be discussing something so important for our country, for our economy, and for getting us all working again and working well again.
Its a tax reform that I think will make America strong and great again.
Too few Americans are working. Too many jobs are being shipped overseas. And too many middle income families cannot make ends meet.
This plan directly meets these challenges and the challenges also of business.
It will provide major tax relief for middle income and for most other Americans. There will be a major tax reduction.
It will simplify the tax code. It will grow the American economy at a level it hasnt seen for decades.
And all of this does not add to our debt or our deficit.
But I will also be discussing some of that at the end because we have to make much better deals, we have to negotiate much harder, and weve got to make our economy strong.
Changes for individuals will be at levels that you havent seen in a long time.
Were going to cut the individual rates from 7 brackets to 4. Simplification. 25%, 20%, 10%, and 0%.
If youre single and earn less than $25,000 per year or married and jointly earn less than $50,000  so, very important. If youre single and earn less than $25,000 or married and jointly earn less than $50,000, youll not pay any income tax  nothing.
This eliminates very strongly and quickly the marriage penalty. Very unfair penalty.
It eliminates the AMT, which is the alternative minimum tax.
It ends the death tax. Its a double taxation. A lot of families go through hell over the death tax.
It reduces or eliminates most of the deductions and loopholes available to special interests or to the very rich  in other words, its going to cost me a fortune, which is actually true  while preserving charitable giving and mortagage interest deductions. Very importantly.
It ends the current tax treatment of carried interest. Those are the hedge fund folks that Ive been talking about for quite a while. They make a lot of money. Carried interest.
So it ends the current tax treatment of carried interest through speculative partnerships that do not grow businesses or create jobs and are not risking their own capital.
Changes for business  now, so important, because its all about business. Its all about jobs.
We have 93 million people in this country that are in serious trouble, that want to work; they cant work.
So for business, no business of any size from a Fortune 500 company to a mom and pop shop to a freelancer living from gig to gig will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Big reduction.
A one-time deemed repatriation of corporate cash held overseas at significantly discount which coming back at a significantly discount  10%. So it comes back discounted at a 10% tax rate and ends the deferral of taxes on corporate income earned abroad.
Now, its called corporate inversion. Its a huge subject.
Ive been watching politicians now for years  all talk, no action politicians. Ive been watching them for years talking about bringing this money back.

The number is probably $2.5 trillion.
Everybody agrees it should come back  Republicans, Democrats, everybody.
They cant make a deal. They dont know how to go about making a deal.
The reason companies arent bringing it back is the tax is onerous. It doesnt make sense to bring it back.
And in fact, many companies are leaving the United States. Theyre leaving our shores to go and collect their money.
Theyre going actually moving out of the United States for two reasons  the taxes are too high and because they have tremendous amounts of money that they cant bring back into this country when everybody wants them to bring it back in.
Its called leadership.
We will have that money brought back in.
As an example, I have millions of dollars overseas. I cant bring it back into this country. We filed papers. Weve been doing this for a year and a half. We cant get it back in.
So the money stays in other countries and thats what happens. Not good for us.
The level of leadership that we need to get things like this done is so important. But this is something  and Ive been watching it for a long time  everybody agrees to.
We also reduce or eliminate some business loopholes  many of them actually  and deductions made unnecessary or redundant by the new lower tax rate on business income.
The tax rate now is so low that a lot of these deductions which are complicated, which dont make sense, and which are unfair are gone.
And we phase in a reasonable cap on the deductability of the business interest expense.
So we are going to give you  we have a very complex set of papers that actually if you know business is not so complex. And were going to hand them out right now to the press.
And I think youll see we have an amazing code. It will be simple. It will be easy. It will be fair.
Its graduated. As you get up in income, you pay a little more.
Some of the very unfair deductions that certain people have been given who make a lot of money will not be available any longer.
But I actually believe theyll do better because I think the economy will grow. It will grow rapidly. And well have something very special.
Now, with all of that being said and before we take some questions, we have to cut the costs of whats going on in this country.
If you look at what were doing and the money were spending. I read where a washer  you know what a washer is? Nuts, bolts, and washer  to send from one state to another, it was a 19 set washer and it cost $900,000 and some odd dollars to send it from here to there.
And there are many examples. Hammers that cost $800 that you can buy in the store for a tiny amount of money.
We will run this country properly. There is so much money to be saved.
Were reducing taxes but at the same time if I win, if I become President, we will be able to cut so much money and have a better country.
We wont be losing anything other than well be balancing budgets and getting them where they should be.
So, this is a plan thats simple, thats a major reduction. I think people are going to be very happy. Weve already had some very good reviews.
I did the plan with some of the leading scholars and economists and tax experts that there are in this country. They love it; they say "Why hasnt this been done before?"
And this is my wheelhouse. Thats what I do well.
The economy is what I do well. Whenever they do polls, I always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership, by the way, but I wont say that.
So, if anybody has  [applause]  thank you. Thats amazing. Thats some of the press was actually clapping. Ive never saw  I dont think Ive ever seen that before.
All right. Why dont we take some questions from the press?



No, Im not going to do that yet but we have their approval. But we have some of the top people in the country worked on this.


Well, were looking at a 3% but we think it can be 5%, it could even be 6%. Were going to have growth that will be tremendous.
And by the way, if we have more than 3%, these numbers are really spectacular.
And one of the things that they dont take into account in any big league fashion is the cutting. There is so much waste in government and I believe when I get in there Ill be able to cut without losing anything to cut tremendous amounts off of the  and were not even showing anything for that.
So, theyre very conservative numbers.


My taxes will  first of all, Ill have a much simpler tax statement. It will be much simpler.
When I do my return, it will be much  my return go up to the ceiling and beyond, which is ridiculous. And you spend millions of dollars at a high level on lawyers, accountants, and everything else.
We want to simplify them to a tremendous level.
The bracket of 25%  the big difference is many of the loopholes and many of the deductions which are all  theyve been there for years  are antiquated in many cases.
Or are put there because a lot of the people that get these deductions are contributed to Hillary, theyre contributing to Bush. Theyre contributing to every candidate but Trump. Because Im not taking any money. Im self-funding. And these people want these deductions.
There will be people  were reducing taxes. But believe me, there will be people in the very upper eschelons that wont be thrilled with this.
Were taking away deductions and thats one of the reasons were able to lower it.


This is actually a tax reduction. A big tax reduction, including for the upper income.
I believe that the economy will do so well that even though they wont be getting certain deductions which arent fair for them to be getting that theyll end up doing better.


I just think this is a common sense approach. You know, we could say supply side. You could say theres 15 different names given out for different kinds of deductions or increases. I dont think its supply side or anything else.
I think this is a common sense, well thought out tax proposal thats going to trigger the economy, going to make everybody go back and really want to work.
Its going to create tremendous numbers of jobs.
One of the other things that Im coupling this with is if I become President, Im going to renegotiate our trade deals. Because our trade deals are not sustainable by this country. Not sustainable.
We cannot continue to let our jobs go to all of the different countries. Theres not a country that we negotiate with that doesnt make a better deal. Everybody.
We lose money with everything.
Im also going to renegotiate some of our military costs. Because we protect South Korea, we protect Germany, we protect some of the wealthiest countries in the world  Saudi Arabia  we protect everybody. We protect everybody.
And we dont get reimbursement. We lose on everything. We lose on everything.
So, were going to negotiate and renegotiate trade deals, military deals, many other deals thats going to get the costs down for running our country very significantly. Im not showing a big number in that. But I believe that if I become President, those numbers are going to be massive.
As an example, Saudi Arabia. They make $1 billion a day. We protect them.
So we need help.
Were losing a tremendous amount of money on a yearly basis and we owe $19 trillion.
I used to say $18 trillion for the last 6, 7 months; now its $19 trillion and its only going up.


Well, no, look. Senator [Marco] Rubio is a lightweight. We understand that. He wouldnt be able to do this. He wouldnt know a trade deal from any other deal and what certain people are trying to do is theyre trying to take  we just went up in the last poll. We went up two points in the last poll, and we continue to go up.
In the NBC poll, I think we went from 26% to 29%. Were going up very strongly in the polls. They dont know what to do about it.
Ive built a great company. Youll see that in 60 Minutes last night. I built a great company. Its a phenomenal company with very little debt, tremendous cash flow.
Im funding my own campaign.
Guys like Rubio, I mean, he desperately needs money. Ask the car dealer in Florida. Ask the people that support him.
And a guy like Rubio and others  I dont want to single him out; youre singling him out  but theyre largely controlled by their donors, the special interests, and frankly more than anybody else, the lobbyists.
Ive turned down millions of millions of dollars from lobbyists and special interests because its not the right thing. Its just not right. And that seems to be resonating very strongly.



I negotiate. Its true. I get bills from people; Ill negotiate. Oh, is that a bad thing? The country should do that.


Yeah, I would. Id bring that same attitude to the White House. Its true.
She says I have a habit when you get a bill, youd call up and you negotiate. To me, thats a compliment.
No, I want to take that thinking to the White House. I would bet you we could save 20% of our budget. I could even save more. But we could save a tremendous amount.
That has to be the attitude our country has. You cant spend millions and millions of dollars on doing something that you can do for $2,000.
You know, when you look at costs, we just spent $1 million building a soccer field. Okay? A soccer field for our prisoners that happen to be in Guantanamo. Okay? I dont like that. What do you need $1 million for? Level out the surface, let them play  if they had to play at all. Okay? What do you need to spend $1 million.
We just spent  its a story today. $1 million on a soccer field. How do you spend $1 million doing a soccer field? You have a level piece of land. Throw them a ball if they have to play soccer  if they have to play at all. Why are they playing soccer is my question.


No, its too long. You dont have time. You dont have time.


No, not at all. Were lowering taxes, which Republicans love.
And I think one of the reasons I am doing so well in the polls and one of the reasons Im doing so well when it comes to the economy in all polls is that this is the thinking.
No, were lowering taxes very substantially. Were simplifying. And were getting rid of deductions that are actually obselete that certain people want to keep for certain reasons.
So, no, thats not true.


Well, Putin was interviewed and I was interviewed last night. I thought his interview  I though Charlie Rose did an excellent job. But I thought his was a softer interview.
Scott Pelley interviewed me. I thought Scott was terrific. I mean, it was a tough interview but I thought he was very fair and I thought the piece was very good.


Why is he harder on me than Putin? I would say because Putin is a nicer person than I am.


The worst in 36 years. Well, its a good question and you can connect the dots. But I guess it has been probably since 04. You know, youre talking about 10, 11, 12 years that people have wanted to bring the money back into the country.
And again its called corporate inversion and in a lot of time corporations are moving out and theyre going to other countries, taking jobs.
And now, we have a really big problem because we have serious companies  very large, very prestigious companies as you know  obviously you know something about business. But we have major companies looking to move out of the United States.
You know, it used to be theyd move from New York to Florida. Theyd move from New Jersey to Texas. Or whatever.
Now, theyre talking about moving from the United States to Ireland and to England and to other places, to Spain where they get treated differently and frankly better.
And theyre doing that for a number of reasons but one of the reasons  one of the big reasons  as you know is taxes. One of the other reasons is to get all of this cash that theyve built up and they cant get back into our country.
And when this money comes back into our country that everybody wants, its going to be put to work in our country, largely. It can go other places. But largely.
And I think it will be an amazing boon.
Now, heres the other thing. They think its $2.5 trillion. I think its much more than that.
I actually think its going to be more money than that. And boy if it is, we have hit pay dirt.



Well, you know when you end the repatriation, when you get the money coming back in beyond, tremendous things happen.


Well, Ill be announcing that in the not too distant future.
But I will tell you. Ive been honest. Im the only one thats honest about this thing.
I watched Romney. I watched all  "Oh, I pay so much tax. I pay so much tax." I watched all politicians and they say "I pay  "
I fight like hell to pay as little as possible. Can I say that? Im not a politician.
I fight like hell always because its an expense.
And you know, I feel  I fight. I have the best lawyers and the best accountants and I fight. And I pay. But its an expense.
And frankly, I would feel differently if this country was spending the money wisely instead of throwing it out the drain.
Our country spends our money so stupidly and I will tell you that I could speak for myself I pay a lot of tax but I fight like hell to make it as low as possible. But I would feel a lot differently if our leadership was such that I respected the decisions.
All you have to do is look at a list of the things that our government is spending money on right now and you dont feel so good about our country.


Ill tell you what in terms of income inequality, were going to create a lot of jobs.
You know, right now, we have a false  5.4%, 5.3%, 5.6%  every month its different.
Its such a phony number. Because when people look and look and look and then they give up looking for a job, theyre taken off the roll. So the number isnt reflective.
Ive seen numbers of 24%. I actually saw a number of 42% unemployment. 42%.
And it could be because when youre looking for a job and you go around and you look and you look and you find it, you want to work and you want to take care of your family and then you cant get the job  you know what Im talking about because youre shaking your head  and you cant get the job, essentially for statistically purposes you are considered employed.
So then I read every time it comes out I hear 5.3% unemployment. That is the biggest joke there is in this country.
That number is so false.
And you know, people ask "How come Trump is doing so well? And Carson and others? How come theyre doing -?" You know why theyre doing well? Because people are tired of political speak. Theyre tired of that.
And the worst example of it  one of the worst example of it  is the phony unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate is probably 20%. But I will tell you you have some great economists that will tell you its 30%, 32%. And the highest Ive heard so far is 42%.
Theres anger out there at the job picture.
Now, one of the things  with that being said, China, Japan, Mexico, Brazil, these countries are all taking our jobs like were a bunch of babies.
That will stop. People will treat us fairly if I become President.
Were losing our jobs. Were losing our base. Were losing our manufacturing.
All of that will stop.


Well, this is number one a simplification. Number two, what Im really doing is the big picture because corporations now are going to start having an incentive to create jobs. Theyre going to have an incentive also to stay in this country.


Well, if they provide bigger dividends, people are going to have more money to spend. So thats not so bad either.
If a corporation gives out a bigger dividend, thats great. Mr. Jones gets a bigger dividend, hes going to have more money to spend in the economy. So thats good.


I know nothing about that.


No, Im not a populist. No, Im not. Im a man of great common sense. Im a man thats built a tremendous company with the best locations in real estate, the best everything. Youre here at one of them. I have many of these.
Ive done a great job. Ive employed tens of thousands of people. I employ now thousands and thousands of people. Ive done a good job.
But I wouldnt say populist at all. I would say Im a man of common sense.
Im cutting taxes. Im going to create a lot of jobs. Im going to get rid of a tremendous amount of waste.
And Ill tell you what. The waste that I get rid of  the waste that I get rid of  is going to have a huge impact and Im not even putting that in my numbers so I think its going to be terrific.


Yes, the motor industry. Thats a beautiful way of describing it  the motor industry.
Where are you from? England? I love them. Oh, what a beautiful accent.
No, I want to get the industry  we call it the automobile industry.
But I want to get the automobile industry to build factories here.
As you know, Ford is building $2.5 billion factory in Mexico.
Mexico also took a big plant out of Tennessee and Tennessee thought they were going to get it and they didnt.
I want the motor companies, as you would say, or the automobile companies to build their plants in the United States.
I dont want Nabisco leaving for Mexico or any place else.
I want these companies not to leave Chicago, not to leave Michigan, not to leave New Hampshire and Iowa and South Carolina and all of these places where theyre leaving and theyre going to other countries.
I want them to stay here and they will stay here and theyll be so happy.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Its been a great honor. Thank you.

Autism has become an epidemic.
25 years ago, 35 years ago, you look at the statistics. Not even close.
It has gotten totally out of control.
I am totally in favor of vaccines but I want smaller doses over a longer period of time.
Because you take a baby in  and Ive seen it and Ive seen it and I had my children taken care of over a long period of time, over a two or three year period of time, same exact amount. But you take this little beautiful baby and you pump  I mean, it looks just like its meant for a horse not for a child.
And weve had so many instances  people that work for me just the other day  two years old, two and a half years old, a child  a beautiful child  went to have the vaccine and came back and a week later got a tremendous fever, got very, very sick, now is autistic.
I only say  Im in favor of vaccines. Do them over a longer period of time. Same amount but just in little sections.
And I think youre going to have  I think youre going to see a big impact on autism.

Boy, oh, boy. I didnt expect that. You know, Joe [Arends] and the group [Veterans for a Strong America] called and they said "Would you come over and speak?"
Im here for a certain reason. You know, its called tomorrow night. So I got here and they asked a couple of days ago if it would possible to come over and say a few words. An endorsement from your group with so many veterans  hundreds of thousands of veterans  I really appreciate that, Joe. I did not expect that.
I didnt expect it. I didnt ask for it.
I will say this: I am with the veterans 100%. Theyre our greatest people. Theyre being treated terribly.
Not only the number of deaths, which are obviously  thats whats going on is incredible.
But as of two weeks ago on Wednesday, the vets had the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. You go in to see a doctor, you wait for days, for days.
And its not going to happen. Not going to happen. If I win, believe me, its not going to happen.
And one of the things I thought Id do and Id stress so strongly  the veterans hospitals  obviously they have problems. Theyre not properly run.
And when you have to wait long hours and long days and then in some cases have the doctor say "Im sorry. Im going on vacation", believe me, it doesnt get much worse than that.
So were going to create a whole new system. Were going to take this system apart.
And if theyre not doing the job, the veterans are going to go to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, and were going to reimburse those doctors and those hospitals.
And youre going to get the greatest service of any veterans in any country because you deserve it. And thats going to be broken down into something thats going to be very special.
Right now  and you know it  we have illegal immigrants that are treated better by far than our veterans. Its not going to happen anymore. Its not going to happen.
So, Joe, I just really appreciate it. So unexpected.
To be here is an honor. They dont build ships like this anymore, folks. You know? We dont do them this way anymore.
I actually said what about recommissioning  look at this thing. The largest guns in the world. The most powerful guns. I learned about the Iowa.
By the way, Iowa is a great place for a lot of reasons. You know? We have been treated so well in the state of Iowa. Its been incredible. Number one on the polls and we love those people. Theyre great.
So this is a great ship and thats a great state.

I just want to say that were going to come out with some plans in a very short time.
Were going to be building up our military. Were going to make our military so big and so strong and so great.
And it will be so powerful that I dont think were going to ever have to use it. Nobodys going to mess with us. That I can tell you.
And were going to have a President whos respected by Putin, whos respected by Iran.
You know, lets talk about for two seconds, lets talk about the Iran deal.
Now, Obama and his people call him the Supreme Leader of Iran. Obama talks about the Supreme Leader. Well, Im not calling him a Supreme Leader.
But he said the other day that after this rip-off deal is completed, he will never touch, do business with the United States again. "Were finished with the United States."
Theyre taking $150 billion. Theyre getting a deal thats going to go right into nuclear weapons much sooner than you think.
Theyre going to self-police  think about that one  they are going to go and self-police.
Theyve got the 24-day  they have 24-day provisions. And by the way, what people dont understand  the 24-day provision doesnt start  you know this, right? It doesnt start for a long time before you even get to it. The clock is ticking. It can take forever. We may never get it there.
It is one of the dumbest deals and one of the weakest contracts Ive ever seen of any kind.
So, we are going to do things and this country right.
Were not going to sign deals where we have four prisoners over there and theres still there and we dont even ask for them.
One of them is there because hes a Christian. We have a writer. We have  the whole thing is absolutely insane.
You know, they asked the President, and they asked Secretary of State Kerry who maybe  you know, Ive been saying Hillary Clinton is the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country. Right? All right. Ive been saying it. But its possible  the world blew up around her. It blew up. Just blew up. The whole world is like a different place.
Its possible that because of this deal made by Secretary Kerry who has absolutely no clue how to negotiate, it may that hes going to supersede. And I understand that he may want to run for President. He has no chance like she has no chance.
So were going to see what happens.
We have many problems in our country. One of them is immigration.
Now, I took a tremendous hit when I brought up illegal immigration when I announced I was running for President.
And for two weeks, I said  you know, Rush Limbaugh  hes a great guy  he said "He has suffered more incoming"  meaning the press  "than anybody Ive seen."
So what happened is you have now found out what illegal immigration is all about and I am so happy that Im the one that brought it to the fore because believe me, its a big problem. It is a big problem.
So you remember for about two weeks, I said, "Boy this is tougher than I thought running for President." And then you found out theres tremendous crime. Theres tremendous drugs pouring across the border. Tremendous. Beyond. Going to Chicago, going to New York, going to LA, going all over our country.

So the drugs pour in and the money pours out. Not a good deal. We get the drugs, they get the money. The drug cartels are going wild. They cannot believe how stupid our government is.
They are making a fortune. The drugs come in. The money goes out daily. And I saw it because I was on the border. I was there. And we saw it. And everybody sees it everyday.
And we have the kind of people that can do something about it but we have no leadership. None. None whatsoever.
So, were going to build a wall and Mexicos going to pay for the wall, believe me. You know, a lot of politicians have said "Oh, theyre not going to pay". They dont know anything about  they never read the Art of the Deal, first of all.
So heres the story. So heres the story. I said the other day to one of my people "What is the United States trade deficit with Mexico, Japan, and China?"
So lets start with China. Almost $400 billion a year.
Now, if you have a company where youre losing $400 billion, youve got to do something very fast.
We dont. Weve been losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year frankly for decades.
Not going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore.
With Japan where their massive ships floating right here and they drop off the cars, right? They drop off thousands and thousands and thousands of cars  millions of cars  and we sell them beef. We sell them beef.
And they dont want it because their farmers dont want our beef. They protest and they send it back. All right?
Its not going to happen that way anymore.
Now, with Mexico  and I love Mexico. I have many, many people  many, many people from Mexico that work with me and they work for me and they buy my apartments.
Same with China. I have so many people. They pay me millions and millions. What am I supposed to hate China because they gave me millions of dollars to buy an apartment? I dont think so.
I had the largest bank in the world as a tenant. Its from China. Bigger than any bank in this country by many times. Theyre from China.
The problem that we have is that the leaders of Mexico, Japan, and China and every other country that we do business with, theyre smarter, more cunning, sharper than our leaders.
I love free trade. The concept is great. But you need smart people.

I have the smartest people in this country lined up. I know the smartest.
I have Carl Icahn. I have the best business leaders and they all want to do it. Theyre wealthy because they make good deals like me. I make good deals.
You know, its a talent. Its a talent. You cant be a politician.
Look, Im fighting some very nice people. Very nice. Even though Im leading in the polls. But theyre very nice people.
But theyre never going to do anything with these countries. Theyre never going to be able to do it. Its an instinct. Its something thats special. They dont have it. Believe me, they dont have it.
Its just going to be more of the same.
So, we are going to make our country so great.
We are going to make it strong. We are going to make it powerful.
Were going to rebuild the military. Were going to make it so strong.
We are going to take care of our veterans.
And in the end, in the end, I want you people to look around and look at each other because this is going to be a special day.
The other week  two weeks ago in Mobile, Alabama, 31,000 people showed up in a rainy rough day. 31,000 people came to see us speak and were talking about making America great again.
Last night in Dallas at the American Airlines Center, 20,000 people  the basketball arena of the Mavericks. 20,000 people showed up and I want to tell you, it was a love fest. Everybody  think of it, 20,000 people  there wasnt one heckler in the whole room. I kept saying, "Theres got to be one."
There was a word  two words that used to be used a lot called "silent majority". They stopped using them.
The silent majority, believe me, is back and I think we can use it somewhat different.
I dont think we have to call it a silent majority anymore because theyre not silent. People are not silent.
Theyre disgusted with our incompetent politicians.
Theyre disgusted with the people that are giving our country away.
Theyre disgusted when they tell the border patrol agents who are good people and can do the job.
Theyre disgusted when theyre allowed people to just walk right in front of them and theyre standing there helpless and people just pour into the country.
Theyre disgusted when a woman whos nine months pregnant, walks across the border, has a baby, and you have to take care of that baby for the next 85 years.
Theyre disgusted by whats happening to our country.
And youre going to look around and youre going to remember who the people are that are here because were doing something special. This is a movement. Were going to make our country great again.
Believe me, we will make our country great again.
I love you all. Thank you very much.

Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you all for being here. This is some turnout. My great honor.
The Chairman just left as you probably know and hes been extremely fair. The RNC has been absolutely terrific over the last two month period.
And as you know, thats what Ive wanted. I wanted fairness.
I dont have to be treated any differently than anybody else. I just wanted fairness from the Republican Party.
Were leading in every single poll. A new poll came out today where were over 30%. Weve actually hit numbers as high as 35% and 40%.
And frankly, Ive felt that the absolute best way to win and to beat the Democrats and very easily I think beat the Democrats no matter who it may be whether its Hillary or anybody else and I think maybe Hillary is going to have a very hard time frankly with whats happening getting to the starting gate, the best way for the Republicans to win is if I win the nomination and go directly against whoever they happen to put up.
And for that reason, I have signed the pledge.
So I will be totally pledging my allegiance to the Republican Party and the conservative principles for which it stands and we will go out and we will fight hard and we will win. We will win.
And most importantly, we will make our country great again because thats what its all about. We have to make our country great again.

This is a self-funded campaign. We have our heart in it. We have our soul in it. I dont need money and I dont want money.
And this is going to be a campaign like I think no other.
Im not controlled by lobbyists. Im not controlled by anybody. Im controlled by the people of the country in order to make our country great again.

Yeah, I got nothing. I really got nothing.
The question was what did I get for signing the pledge? Absolutely nothing. Other than the assurance that I would be treated fairly. And Ive seen that over the last two months. They really have been very fair.

No, I have no intention of changing my mind.

Well, I think the big thing thats changed is  and its been obvious to all  number one, after I announced, we went up like a rocket ship.
Nobody thought I was going to run and they said "Oh, he wont run and he wont put in his papers. And he wouldnt do all of this."
I did that. The papers in terms of the company turned out to be spectacular. Its a great company. I built a great company. And all of the other papers have turned out to be very well received.
And I think the thing thats changed is the fact that I went to number one place very quickly after I signed and after I in this building notified everybody that Id be running for President.
So I think the biggest thing is that I went early to number one and the RNC has treated me with great respect.
So that was very important.

No, I see no circumstances under which I would tear up that pledge.

Well, you dont have to be met when youre at 2%. Its one of those things. Thats the way life works. And I like Gov. [Chris] Christie, by the way.

Well, the Chairman asked if he could come up. You saw him. He was here a little while ago. And I was greatly honored that he did come up frankly.

Well, I think that when you get right down to it, were a nation that speaks English and I think that while were in this nation, we should be speaking English. And thats how assimilation takes. And thats how  I mean, whether people like it or not thats how we assimilate and thats how we go on to that next phase and that next stage.
And thats how people that dont speak  and Im not just talking about Spanish; Im talking about from various parts of the world  thats how they will become successful and do great.
So I think its more appropriate to be speaking English.

Well, one of the things I want to do and I feel very strongly its a country based on borders and our country is based on laws.
And when people come into the country illegally, we should not allow that.
And this is not from South America. This is not from Mexico. This is from all over the world.
When people come illegally, we cannot allow that.
And I want people to come legally. I want very much to take care of our border because our southern border is a total mess. Thats been proven.
And interestingly, a couple of months ago when I announced, I made some very strong statements about the crime and the problems that were happening and Ive been proven right.
And many of the people in this audience actually have apologized to me, which I very much appreciate. Of course, they havent done it publicly but these are minor details but someday they will.
The fact is that we are a nation that wants and needs borders. Were a nation that wants and needs and is based on laws.
And we will make sure that that takes place.
With that being said, I want people to come into our country legally. I want to have a big, fat beautiful open door. I want people of great talent to come in for Silicon Valley. I want engineers. I want physicists. I want people with great talent to come into the United States.
When people graduate from college, you can be number one in your class at Harvard or number one at Yale or the Wharton School of Finance or Princeton or Stanford. And immediately if youre not a citizen of the United States, you get thrown out of the country. We want those people to stay.
We want people of great talent to be in the United States to work here and ultimately to become a citizen.

I dont know enough about it to comment on it. Was she jailed? I really dont know much about it.

Thats absolutely false. I win at golf. I win at golf. That I can tell you.

Well, I understand how the system works maybe better than anybody. I understand the political system and I understand also very much a system for coming in for illegal immigrants.
Dont forget if I didnt bring up the subject of illegal immigration, you wouldnt be asking the question. Nobody would be even talking about immigration. And immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor.
Now, a lot of bad things have happened with respect to crime since I brought it up.
But if I didnt bring it up, immigration would not even be a subject that were talking about and it happens to be a very important subject.
I have to say this: It can also be a very positive subject because I believe so strongly in immigration and I just  we have to stop illegal immigration and we have to look forward to great immigration done in a legal manner.
But if I didnt bring it up, nobody would be talking about it.

Well, there is gridlock in Congress right now and thats because theres no leadership at the top. You have to be able to lead. You have to be able to get people into your office. You have to get people go to them. Any way you want to do it. But you have to be able to lead. There is no leadership at the top.
Signing executive orders it not the way our country was supposed to be run.

I dont want to talk about that. Its inappropriate.

Tom Brady? Well, Tom Brady is a very good friend of mine. Hes a great guy.
For those of you who dont know him, hes a very honorable and an honest guy and a truly great athlete. He is really a very good friend of mine.
And I just spoke to him a little while ago. Hes so thrilled and so happy.
Tom Brady  I think what theyve done is terrible. And hes been exonerated as I understand it because I just heard about it. But Im very happy for Tom.
As far as the Commissioner is concerned, theyre having a rough year. Lets face it. Theyre having a very rough year.

Well, in Europe they have tremendous problems with people going in and storming. And its a huge humanitarian problem.
And I just say this. This United States has tremendous problems of their own. We have infrastructure that we have to fix. We have bridges and roads and tunnels and everything is falling apart. Our nations in such trouble.
Thats why being a builder and a great builder and a very successful builder I think will greatly help.
But we have so many of our own problems including the border, including the wall, which we will get built, including all of the things we have  health care, which is a mess.
You know, if you look at Obamacare, the premiums have gone up 45%, 50%, 55%. People are saying "This is turning out to be a disaster." Deductibles are through the roof. The deductibles on Obamacare its through the roof.
So we have a lot of problems. We have to take care of our vets. We have to build up our military.
Just the other day, Gen. [Ray] Ordierno said that the Army is in the worst shape in its history in terms of preparedness.
Now, for them to be in bad shape with the way we are and with the world hating us, and you look at Hillary Clinton  and Ive said shes the worst Secretary of State in the history of this country.
Now, in all fairness, because of the agreement thats about to be finalized with Iran, John Kerry may very well take her place.
I think that agreement is a disaster for this country, for Israel, for the Middle East. Its going to lead to nuclear proliferation  the 24-day clause  everything about it. We dont even get our prisoners back. You say who negotiates a thing like that?
That wont happen, I can guarantee you, with a President Trump.

Youll see it later. Yeah. They dont want to hear it.

I would say very simply I just want to be treated like everybody else.
You see, I was always the fair hair boy. I was a big contributor. Nobody knows the system. But I was on the other side. And I was the elite. I was the fair hair person.
Once I ran, all of a sudden I was a little bit of an outsider. I became an outsider because I was running. Because I wasnt supposed to run.
Im this businessman that people have given me great credit as being a great businessman. But Im not supposed to be running for office.
The fact is that our country is being killed on trade by China, by Japan, by Mexico both at the border and on trade.
And Im not knocking those countries. Their leaders are much, much smarter than our leaders. They are absolutely killing us.
China  taking our jobs, taking our money, taking our base. And think of this: We owe China $1.4 trillion and were paying them interest.
We owe Japan with all of the cars coming in the same amount  $1.4 trillion.
Now, thats like a magic act. They send the cars in, they take our jobs, they do everything, and we owe them money. Thats not going to happen with me.

Well, Jeb Bush is a very nice man. Ill be honest. I think hes a very nice person. I think hes a very low energy person and I dont think thats what the country needs.
I hear hes going to spend a lot of money on negative ads on me.
And honestly, look, hes getting the money from special interests. Hes getting the money from lobbyists and his donors. And theyre making him do it because hes crashing in the polls.
So I dont know whats going to happen if he spends $20 million or $25 million on negative ads  I dont know. I know that my life will continue. I just dont know. I mean nobodys ever spent money on ads against me. But he probably has to do that although it would not be the way Ive done.
You know, one of the things Im most honored about is that so far everybody thats attacked me has gone down the tubes.
You have Lindsey Graham attacked me. He was at 3%. Now hes at zero.
You have Perry attacked me. Now hes getting out of the race. He was at 4% or 5%. Now hes getting out of the race. He was at zero.
Everybody  Rand Paul attacked me. I see the last poll  the Monmouth poll that just came out today where Im leading by double figures and Rand Paul is down to less than 2% and he attacked me.
Now, Jeb Bush also just went down in the Monmouth poll very big.
So I dont know. Are they going to spend  hes going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money. Remember this  they have total control over Jeb and Hillary and everybody else that takes that money.
Nobody knows the system better than me. They have total control.
You understand it very well because youve been covering it for a long time. Those people that are putting up those millions of dollars have total control over your candidate.
I will tell you this: Nobodys putting up millions of dollars for me. Im putting up my own money.
In fact, I feel a little bit foolish. People are offering me millions and millions of dollars. You know, when youre in first place, you can collect so much money and I keep turning them down. I feel like  am I a fool? I feel very foolish.
And when I was in Iowa last week, I said "What do you think? Can I take  " One man offered me  a big lobbyist  offered $5 million for my campaign. I said to the crowd in Iowa  great crowd, 4,000 people  I said "Can I take it? And would you believe Im not going to do anything? I promise you. I swear to you I wont do anything." And they all stood up and said "No, no, dont take it."
The fact is Im the only self-funder. Im putting up my own money.
I know there have been some super PACs  5 or 6 super PACs  where people are forming super PACs for Trump. I have nothing to do with them. As you know, youre not allowed to have anything to do with them. So I dont know what theyre going to do.
Hopefully, if theyre going to do something its going to be nice. But I dont know anything about them.
But just in a nutshell, Im funding my own campaign. Nobody elses.
When people advertise  and I hope the voters can see this. Every negative ad they see about me is paid for by lobbyists and special interests. So just remember that.

Our country could be doing much better. We have deficits that are enormous. We have all bad trade agreements. We have an Army that the heads said is not prepared. We have a military that needs help and especially in these times.
We have nuclear weapons that you look at 60 Minutes they dont even work. Okay? If anybody saw that report. The phones dont work. Theyre 40 years old. They have wires that are no good.
Nothing works. Our country doesnt work.
Everybody wins except us. We need victories in this country. We dont have victories any more.
Our country will be great again, but right now our country has major problems.

I think its great that shes [Carly Fiorina] in the debate. I was in favor of her being  I think she should be in the debate.
I dont like the fact that there are 11 people now as I understand it. Theyre not getting rid of Rand Paul or somebody. But I think they should because theres too many people.
Because when you have 11, youre not getting to hear me and youre not getting to hear other people talking and I think thats too bad. I think 11 is a lot of people.
But I was very happy that she got into the debate because frankly she deserves to be in the debate.

I think maybe hes [Joe Biden] inclined not to get in the race. I think its going to depend on what happens with Hillary Clinton.
A lot of people think that she will not be able to make it legally from a criminal standpoint to the starting gate. I dont know that to be true.
But I think it depends on what happens with her.
I think if she gets out, he will get in. I think if she stays in, he might not.
Who knows?

Oh, hes not supposed to be here because he was here, he was up in my office and he got the pledge and were very happy about that. We dont want anything  and I told him. I said, "I dont know if its appropriate Reince for you to be here because I dont want anything  " You know, you guys will end up saying hes endorsing Trump.
So I suggested frankly that Im fine with him not being here because I dont want anybody to think hes endorsing.
As far as Jeb is concerned, I watched him this morning on television and its a little bit sad.
Dont forget. He was supposed to win. And he just doesnt have the energy.
But what he does have is a lot of money that was given to him again by special interests, donors, and lobbyists.
And I just hope that if he spends money on ads, which he may not  if I were him, Id spend money on positive ads about himself. Because if he knocks me, assuming people leave and maybe theyre at a point where theyre not going to leave because theyre fed up with whats happening in this country, but I think theyre going to go to people other than Jeb.

I dont know. Right now, Im interested in jobs. One thing  one of the groups, it was actually CNN. I shouldnt say that. But they did a very massive poll and I came out number one in leadership, number one on the economy, number one in jobs producing.
And I dont mean by number one. I mean like number one by many, many times. And I am so intent on putting people back to work in this country.
You know, we have 93 million people that are not in the workforce right now. 93 million.
When they give up looking for a job, they take them off of the stats. They take them off the statistics. We have 93 million people.
We have 50 million people between poverty levels and welfare and all.
Our country can be great again. We have to put people back to work.

Would I bring my children into the administration? I will tell you they are very capable. The answer is probably not. But having them in would be very good. Theyre very, very capable children.
The second part I wont bother asking you. Its no longer pertinent.

Kanye West? You know what? Ill never say bad about him. You know why? Because he loves Trump. He loves Trump. He goes around saying "Trump is my all-time hero." He says it to everybody.
So, Kanye West  I love him. Now, maybe in a few years Ill have to run against him. I dont know. So Ill take that back.
But hes been so nice to me.
You people have sort of seen because Ive been a counter-puncher. I only hit people when they hit me. Only. And Kanye West has been so great. I would never say bad about him because he says such nice things about me.

No, my supporters are really supporting me because Im very competent, because they know that Im not going to let China rip us off. Im not going to let Japan rip us off.
Japan is devaluing their yen. Very hard for Caterpillar and other companies to compete against Komatsu  their big tractor maker  and others. Were not going to let this happen anymore.
They do  you talk about a trade imbalance. They have in Japan the biggest ships youve ever seen pouring cars into Los Angeles, pouring them in. Ive never seen anything like it. We send them beef and they dont even want it.
Its going to end and theyre going to like us.
In this building, I have the largest bank in the world. Right up these elevators. Its a bank from China. By far the biggest bank in the world.
I get along great with China. I get along great with Japan. I get along great with Mexico.
I love the people. I love the people of Mexico. I love the Hispanics. I have thousands of Hispanics right now working for me. Over the years, I have employed tens of thousands of Hispanics  many from Mexico. I have unbelievably great relationships.
And in the package that we gave you, youll see theres a poll and Im number one with Hispanics. You saw that. Number one with Hispanics.
So, look, for our country to be great, we have to be able to make great deals. Were going to be great to the vets. Were going to be terrific. Our military is going to be unbelievable.
All of these things  were going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with something thats much better and much less expensive. Were going to get rid of it. Were going to repeal it. Its going to be out. Should have been out a long time ago. Should have never happened.
But we are going to take care of our country and we are going to bring back jobs and were going to bring back wealth to the United States so we can afford to save Social Security, which Ill save without cuts, so that we can afford to do the kind of things that we have to do to make America great again.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. And here is your pledge.

Im going to tell you a story about Nashville. Youre not even going to believe it. But its a very personal story. Its a very special place to me for a very special reason.
But maybe more importantly, we have an incredible woman with us. Shes 92 years old. We dont talk about age but shes 92. And she looks magnificent. And her name is Beada and shes become very famous. You know who Beada is, right?
Beada, where are you Beada? Look at her. So beautiful.
So, she just registered to vote for the first time in her life. She hasnt seen anybody that really did it to her. And for the first time in her life she just registered to vote and shes going to vote for Trump. I think, right?
Thank you, darling. I really appreciate it. You know, shes become so famous. Shes on television all over the world now.
I have to be nervous even talking to her, youre so famous. Its great.
Beada, thank you very much. I really appreciate it and everybody appreciates it.
Because there is a big, big growing like leaps and bounds silent majority out there and were going to take this country back and were going to make this country so great again and so strong again.
Well, I just want to tell you about Nashville. So, years ago  many years ago  like I hate to say 40 but I wont say 40 but close to 40, I came to Nashville. Did you ever hear of a company called Genesco? Genesco. Right? So, they were based in Nashville, Tennessee, and they owned the Bonwit Teller department store chain.
And I was a young guy and I came from Brooklyn in Queens, and I wanted to go into Manhattan. And I went into Manhattan and I did the Grand Hyatt Hotel and I did some other things that were good.
But the thing I wanted more than anything was Fifth Avenue between 57th and 56th Street, which is called the Tiffany Location right next to Tiffany. And thats what I wanted. I wanted that piece of property so badly.
I shouldnt say that because youre not supposed to want things like that so badly. God will get angry at me, right?
But I wanted it so badly and the company that owned it was Genesco based in Nashville, Tennessee.
And I came in and I came to Nashville, and I met with the heads of Genesco who were really great people actually. And they were having a lot of difficulties. There were a lot of fighting and a lot of everything.
And I convinced them to sell me the land and the building. And I bought the Bonwit Teller store Fifth Avenue from 57th to 56th street surrounding Tiffany. I bought all the air rights and then ultimately I bought the air rights from Tiffany and I built Trump Tower. And to this day its one of the great buildings of the world and its one of the great successes.
And I love country music and I went to the Grand Ole Opry while I was here. And I just had such an incredible experience.
And when it came down to speaking because we could speak at a lot of places  you know, when youre leading in every poll, they sort of want you. When youre not leading in the polls, like so many of these guys, they dont want you at all.
And well talk about the polls in a second.
But I had a lot of choices for this morning, and I guess I could have also gone and played golf like the President does all the time, right? But I decided lets do this.
And I really chose Nashville because the experience is one of my  its not my biggest deal but in terms of a deal its so important and its been such a great  from the day I built it it was a home run. And it all really took place because of Nashville, Tennessee. So, I really  its an honor to be with you folks, I can tell you. Real honor.

So, coming over I heard and I watched television  you know, they have all these cameras back there and theyre live. And I guess were live on CNN, were live on so many different things. Its always difficult. You know, when youre always live, youve got to change up your speech. You cant make the speech over and over
The other candidates dont get covered live ever, except for the debate.
So you know, they had 24 million people on the debate. Now they think when the new numbers come out theyll be even substantially higher than that.
So I wouldve said they would have had a million or two. So I say they have 24 million people. And I say, well now the second debate, which is on CNN  that was on Fox, maybe I should ask for a lot of money and give the money to charity. Does that make sense? All to charity. All to charity.
When I said that to the writers at Time Magazine, they were nice enough to put me on the cover with actually a nice story. And I said, you know, and I sort of thought I said it off the record but they put it in Time Magazine. So now  maybe should I ask for charity, maybe a nice Nashville charity and American Cancer Society and AIDS research  so many of this  theres so many good  Alzheimers  you know, theres so many things going on. Maybe I should ask for a lot of money or Im not showing up.
You know, its interesting. So theyll get 2 million  a million to 2 million people at the debates. You know, theyve been doing them for a long time. They dont do great, especially the early Republican debate. Like you know the expression  it draws flies? Thats what it draws.
So this was one of the biggest shows in the history of cable television. I think it might have been the biggest in terms of political in the history of cable television.
Naturally I took full credit for it, which in all fairness I should. I should.
So bottom line I think I might ask for a lot of money for charity but you know. But I did say is it a little hokey if I do that? Maybe its not so nice. So what do you think? Should I do it or not? Maybe not. I dont know.
Heres the thing. If I dont do it, CNN just makes a lot of money. I dont care about CNN. Honestly. No, theyre going to make a lot of money. They just shut off their camera.
Theyre actually very nice.
But theyre going to make a lot of money and, you know, its something we should consider. So well all consider it together.
But coming over today, I saw that they were having the illegal immigrants come in and somebody mentioned the term the DREAMERs having to do with children and, you know, the dreams of children. And these are people who come over to the country and theyre DREAMERs.
And I said, "What about our children?" Why cant our children that are in the country, why cant they be the dreamers? Nobody ever talks about that. No, no, nobody ever talks about that.
You know, we talk about the DREAMERs, we talk about illegal immigrants, who by the way are treated better than our vets.
You know, our vets are incredible. No, no, the illegal immigrants in many casesare treated better than our veterans who are the greatest people we have  our wounded warriors are  these are the greatest people we have.
And another thing nice about being able to make speeches without having to hire some guy to write and keep writing and reading it and put a teleprompter then say, "Good morning ladies and gentlemen. Nashville, its wonderful  " you know, is that I can sort of be very current. Okay? I can be very, very current. I can talk about whats happening.
This morning on the television, they had a whole story about the Veterans Administration and the hospitals how people are waiting on lines to get in. These are our veterans. These are the people that got hurt fighting for us. Maybe we wouldnt be here if it wasnt for them, to be honest with you. I mean, thats possible too.
They had a story this morning on Fox, on CNN and a number of them where the veterans are just treated terribly and they showed a desk where theres supposed to be people behind this desk and they showed this desk and theres nobody there. And the veterans  I dont know, probably some of you saw it, the veterans are saying "Where are the people?"
And then, they said, "What happened?" And they said, "This happens all the time." There was not even  nobody even there! And two weeks ago on Wednesday, they had the longest wait in the history  in the history of the Veterans Administration for people wanting to see a doctor.
When I go to a doctor, if I have to wait like 9 minutes, Im like "Get me  " Id go crazy. Its true.
Remember the old days when the doctor used to come to your house? Right?

Beada remembers that. Youd have a cold. The doctor would come over carrying a little bag like this big, beautiful little bag, being at the top. And hed come over to your house, check you out, fine. Those days dont exist anymore.
You know, were in age of Obamacare where nothing exists.
By the way, we will repeal and replace Obamacare. That I can tell you. That I can tell you.
But, so two weeks ago Wednesday, the longest wait in the history of the Veterans Administration. So that if you go to the doctors office, men and women are waiting four days, three days, one was five days.
One case was five days or six days, finally got to see the doctor and the doctor excused himself because he was going on vacation.
Now, you think about that. Can you imagine waiting even a day or a half a day? But these people are waiting four, five days.
So the waits now the longest in history and thats the way were treating our greatest people and thats not right and were going to change that. Were going to change that.
We have right now  and people dont know this. You know, they see these phony statistics put out by politicians basically. All talk, no action politicians. And I mean on both sides in all fairness.
You know, Im a Republican. Im a conservative. But Im just as angry with the Republicans because they go to Washington, something happens  they become weak. You know, they go to Washington  "Were going to stop Obamacare. Were going to stop this. Were going to do this. Were going to do that."
Then they walk into these magnificent buildings with those incredible vaulted ceilings, and they go "Oh, I made it, darling, I made it. I vote for you. I vote for you. I vote for Obamacare expansions. Ill do whatever you want me to do. Im in Washington."
Its amazing. Isnt it amazing? Dont you agree?
I wont happen to me, I promise.
And if it does, you can let me know about it. But it wont. I promise. I promise.
But you know, they show those phony statistics where were 5.4% unemployment. 5.4%. The real number. You know, I actually saw a number it could be 42%, okay, believe it or not.
But when you think about it, we have 93 million people that are right now out of the labor force. 93 million people. Of the 93 many of these people want jobs. And they quit looking.
So if youre looking for a job and you cant find it and you stop for a while  you know, after a while you sort of like "Its not happening. Its not going to happen." I dont know what they do. But they stop. They are considered statistically employed. Okay?
So, we have 93 million people out of the labor force. I mean, think about it. Its hard to believe.
We have 50 million people in poverty. These are very new numbers. 50 million people in poverty. Taking our money.
Japans taking our money.
Mexico is beating us at the border and on trade. By the way, theyre killing us on trade. You know that.
In fact, you just lost a big car plant to Mexico in Tennessee. Remember? Recently front page Wall Street Journal. A plant that you were going to have
[Comment on a supporters sign]
You know this is a movement, folks. This is not like maybe even about me. I dont want it to be about me. This is about common sense. Its about doing the right thing.
One of the things that came out in the poll, which was really amazing. Some of the polls, I mean, hey, in Iowa, were leading big. Those are great people. We just left Iowa. We had such an amazing evening. 4,000 people in a room that never had that many people and it was a happening.
We just left Alabama, which was unbelievable. 31,000 people in a stadium, and it was supposed to pour. And it did. It poured the minute my speech  thats like luck. Thats from God. The minute the speech was over, we got it and it poured. We had 31,000 people and it was the most unbelievable.
And the poll just came out in Alabama, leading big in Alabama. Leading big in Iowa. Leading tremendously big in New Hampshire. Great people. Leading really big in New Hampshire.
Leading big in Florida. How about Florida? I have a governor. We have a low energy governor and we have a Senator and were leading big in Florida. How do you do that when you have a Senator whos sitting, you have a governor whos been there for eight years and Trump  ? I love Florida and Im there a lot. What could be in Florida? Great weather. You have great weather but Florida has great weather. Big advantage.

But you know, Im leading big in Florida.
But one of the polls came out because in South Carolina and North Carolina, Im leading really big.
And in South Carolina, a poll came out and we had a statement that my level of popularity or favorability  you know, Im the only one that can get a poll and it comes out and these guys in the back with all those red lights on will say  I think I had one poll where Im 41%  almost 41%  can you imagine? 41%. Theres 17 people. So Im at 41% with 17 people and they said "Trumps at 41% but look"  you cant even hear it. You know, "Trump says bleh". Nobody knows what they just said.
"But there are some people that dont like him."
Its unbelievable. Im the only one that wins these polls and I get negative publicity. No, its incredible. The press, ayeyayay.
Well, yesterday, you might have seen me. I was in South Carolina. I made a speech. I had to bring it up.
The New York Times to me is a big deal. You know, Im from New York. Very liberal paper but thats okay. You know, not everybody could be like us. But its still the New York Times. Right? We have to admit, still the New York Times.
And Im on the front page a lot on the New York Times, and to be on the front page of the New York Times is a big deal.
But yesterday or two days ago, they had story about me and they had some low level Hispanic commentator. Low level guy. This one didnt like me.
By the way, I think Im going to win the Hispanic vote and I think  you know, in Nevada, I won the Hispanic poll. They love me.
I love the Hispanic people. Incredible energy. Incredible people. I love the people. I have so many  I have thousands that work for me and thousands and thousands over the years and have worked for me. Theyre great people.
And I said, "Im going to win". And a lot of the Hispanics that are here legally, they dont want people coming in illegally. You know its true. Its true.
So theres this poll that comes out. I think it was in South Carolina where were way up and Lindsey at 4% and hes the Senator. Im at 30%. So I wrote him a note, "Congratulations. Im only beating you in your home state by 26 points."
So anyways, who cares.
But they did something that nobody reported. They say, "Oh but do people like Trump?" By the way, this election is not going to be like.
I think Im a nice person. I love people. I want to help people.
Womens health issues to me are very important. To Jeb Bush it wasnt important because he didnt want to fund them. And then he said, "Oh, I misspoke."
But you know, I really want to be a nice person and I am a nice person.
But I think its actually going to be an election based on competence. Were tired of being like the patsy for everybody. I really do. I think its time.
But in the poll, this was the Monmouth poll. Big poll. Highly re  "In another act of political magicTrump managed to flip his favorability rating from negative"  nobody wrote this by the way. Nobody said it. Nobody reported it. "From negative to positive."
This is an exact quote. I have like this photographic memory so I dont need  but I want to be sure because if I used the word "the" incorrectly, theyll say, "He didnt  "
"Favorability rating from negative to positive in one poll during the span of a month". A feat that Monmouth Universitys Patrick Murrays highly respected pollster called "astounding".
Called it "astounding." Nobody else wrote about it.
"That defies any rule in presidential politics that Ive ever seen," said this highly respected man.
Murray, the director of the polling institute, said he flipped it from 20% to 52% in one month and he said that hes never seen that before.
And you know what? Thats because people have heard me and they say "Youre such a nice person." No, they want  they say hes a man  Ive made a tremendous amount of money. Ive had tremendous success. And I dont say that braggingly. Thats the kind of thinking we need in the country. I mean, whatever it is.
But to me, that statement was more important than actually literally killing everybody in the poll. We were much, much higher, more than double everybody.
And we are more than double everybody.

You saw the Quinnipiac just came out and that was an amazing poll. I was the same thing. Much, much higher  double and triple and quadruple many of these candidates.
And the reason is people in this country are smart. They dont believe a lot of what they see in the media because if you believe these people  you know, why are they doing this? I mean, why are they even saying it?
Youd think that if somebodys good for the country  and Ill be great for the country because Im going to make great deals for our country. We dont win anymore. Our country doesnt win anymore.
Youd think somebody  even a liberal person or a Democrat liberal and I mean, really liberal. Somebody whos going to make the country  why are they knocking it? Why are they knocking? Why do they fight?
Youd think theyd say "Lets do it. Its good. Its good for all of us."
Because our country is in trouble. We owe now $19 trillion. You know, Ive been saying $18 [trillion] for a while now. But now it starts to go up quickly.
And by the way, when Obamacare kicks in, which is really kicking in in 16, you want to see bad deficits? You want to see it go up? Youre going to really see it go up because that has a huge negative impact not only on jobs but on the deficit itself because of the costs. And its no good.
Have you noticed  and youve seen it yourself  the premiums have gone through the roof? Right? The deductibility  unless youre close to death, youre never going to use it. You cant use it because the deductibility is so high.
But the premiums are up 30%, 40%, and 50% and more. Its a disaster.
And on top of that, its going to cost the country a fortune. So its not only costing you a lot of money, its going to cost the country a fortune.
So we have to do something about it. And we have to do something importantly about it.
But when I see the people on television and I have to tell you I wont mention names, some of them when they hear my name  I was talking  we have a great reporter today from the Wall Street Journal with us. Okay? Who came down. And she actually said "Some of them when they hear your name it looks like theyre a boiler waiting to explode." Its true.
Now, number one, they look bad because they said  do you remember the beginning? Like three, four months ago. They said, "Hes a clown. Hes a clown. Just having fun."
You know, I went to a great school. I did great. I did  everything was great. I came out. I made a fortune, which I want to use the brain for you, but I made a fortune.
I then did a book called The Art of the Deal and many bestsellers. The Art of the Deal being probably the best selling business book of all time. Who has read The Art of the Deal? Yeah, most people. Most everybody.
I jokingly say but I mean it  the Bible tops it by a long way. I say that. I say that. Said it the first time in Iowa. People liked that. But its true. Nothing tops the Bible.
But the Art of the Deal  great success. Many books  bestsellers. Many, many bestsellers.
Then I do The Apprentice. Ive never done television. I do The Apprentice. Its one of the most successful shows ever on television by the way.
And NBC renewed the Apprentice. You know that. Right? For me.
They came up to my office, the head of Comcast  great guy  I wont use names. Just say "Steve". No, honestly hes a great guy. One of the best in the country. He came up with the heads of NBC six months ago and they said, "Donald, were renewing The Apprentice. Please, youll have to do  you have to do it."
I said, "Honestly, Steve, Im running for President. I want to make our country great again. I want to make -"
And they didnt believe me. And I said it four times. They didnt believe me. Nobody believed that I was going to run. Nobody.
My wife didnt even believe me, but now she does. But she actually said "If you actually say youre going to run, youre going to do great because people like you." She actually said "Theyd love you" but I dont want to brag. But she said, "If you actually run  not you may run, you may not run, who knows?" But she said "If you actually say -"
So the NBC guys come up  terrific people. I mean, honestly I had a great relationship with NBC for 12 years. We had many, many, you know number ones and The Apprentice continues to do great. You know, last season you know how well it did. So they wanted to renew it for many, many shows.
In fact, Mark Burnett called up. You know Mark Burnett. He did Survivor, Apprentice. So Mark Burnett, whos a great guy, he calls up and he goes "I dont believe it. Youre not taking a renewal." The word is renewal. I said, "Thats right, Mark. Im going to run for President." "No, no, no, you have to  nobody doesnt take a renewal. Its unheard of in primetime television. Two hours primetime. Are you crazy?" I said, "Mark, I have to do this. Ive done so well in this country. I have to do it."

We can save our country. We can save our country.
So anyways, the bottom line, NBC renewed it. I told them Im not doing it, and then they finally believed me when I actually announced.
They dont like me anymore. Its amazing. They do not like me.
But its too bad. Too bad. Well, thank you.
You know, the funny thing about The Apprentice  there have been 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every single one of them failed. So then a reporter said to me, "Why do you think that is?" I said "Because Im special." And I was kidding. I was doing it sarcastically  I mean, I sort of meant it to be honest, right? But I was sort of kidding. And they wrote it and I hated the way it looked in writing. You know, it sounds good when you say it but oh it looks so bad in writing.
But so I had a great experience. So here I am  great schools, great brain, great success, built a great company, do The Apprentice, tremendous success. When I did The Apprentice, a certain critic said "It will never be successful" because you know to have a big hit  a really a number one hit  you have to  and you remember that first season it had one of the highest ratings ever. The finale of The Apprentice? Aye! Remember with the great Bill Rancic. Remember how that was? Incredible. But to have a great success, you have to have women.
And Ill never forget  I saved the article. Right? Like Harry Truman saved it where it said, "Truman loses" and he actually won. Remember? But I saved this article. They said "Trump can never succeed on television because why would women want to watch Donald Trump?" And I said, "Am I so bad? Am I so bad?" Tell me, am I so bad?
And it turned out that women were the biggest base. I mean, those were the ones that likedSo you know I saved those things.
But no matter how you cut it, we can do something so incredible. And honestly, its going to be hard. Its going to be a lot of work. Its going to be a lot of time. I wouldnt leave the White House. You know, Obama always leaves the White House. Think of it. Youre elected President. Youre in the White House. Why would you want to leave? I think Id maybe never leave! How cool is that?
He leaves to go to some place and go fundraisers. Ill try  I dont know maybe theres some rules against it. So maybe I cant. But Ill do the fundraisers in the White House.
He and his wife left  I think one was doing the Ellen show another was doing another show right next door in Burbank, California. They left a couple of hours difference. One took Air Force One; one took a beautiful Boeing 757. Two planes. A little bit different timing going to the same location, going to the same airport to do different shows.
And I say why? Why arent they flying at least the same plane?
Now, I know what those suckers cost because I happen to have one of them right? So I know what it costs to operate these planesMore importantly, the time and the energy. But I would have said Ellen or I would have said whoever was doing the show, "Lets do it from the White House." This way, I take a half and hour, I go back, I dont spend any money of the taxpayers.
And you know the funny thing is that whoever the host is would like it better. "Were doing our show live from the White House or something".
So we dont pay any money. We dont have to fuel up Air Force One, which costs you  do you ever see what it costs to travel in these things? With hundreds and hundreds of security and youre closing down Burbank, California.
I mean, every time Obama comes to Manhattan to do a fundraiser, which is often, I say "Whats going on? You cant move. They closed down all the streets. They closed down the city."
And he could do it from like Washington. In fact, he could do it in my new hotel that Im buying which is only a couple of blocks.
Its true. Im building this incredible hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue and its going to be incredible. The Old Post Office. And I actually got it from the Obama administration, which is hard to believe. People say "Whats going on? How did Trump get it?"
One of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration, which owned it. You know, theyre the ones that made the decision. And I got it and were building this phenomenal hotel  Trump International Hotel  right on Pennsylvania Avenue directly between Congress and the White House. Right? Its going to open just in time  and by the way, listen to this one. Were under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government? Way under budget.
So were actually going to be opening and itll be great. But he can use my hotel. Ill let him use it free. You just come in, use it, go back to the White House. But you dont have to do that.
But youd say to yourself why  you know, its a mindset. But more importantly even in the travel, we have so many things that we have to do to straighten out our country. You dont want to waste time. Youve got to do this. Youve got to make deals.

Ive got the greatest deal makers in the world lined up to make deals for us. Carl Icahn  incredible guy. Right? Incredible guy. Great deal maker.
Ive got some of the greatest deal makers in the world. Theyre all calling me too. They said "You didnt ask me."
I have these guys calling me up  the best in the world.
Now, I know the best. I also know guys that are overrated. I know guys that you havent heard of that honestly are phenomenal. I know a lot that you have heard of that arent really that good, that are overrated in my opinion.
But theyre the best in the world. And theyre calling me. They dont want money. Theyre worth billions of dollars.
But when I put, lets say, Carl Icahn and Ill say "Carl, do me a favor. Handle China." Were going to make a great deal. No, no, were going to make a great deal because thats what happens. You know, thats what happens.
So, were going to take back our trade.
If you look at China, if you look at Japan  I was in Los Angeles a few weeks ago. I saw ships  the biggest ships Ive ever seen with cars pouring our, pouring out one after another, made in Japan, very nice. Everythings nice. Except that it doesnt help us. When does it help us? When does it help us?
We sell them beef. Beef. And then they dont want it. Because you know, do you ever see whats going on over there? We sell the beef and it goes over there and its very perishable. So by the time it gets over there, then they turn it over "We dont want it."
They have cars coming from these massive, massive ships. Massive. And they just pour off the ships.
And I say, "What are we doing? How stupid are we? No tax, no nothing."
And Im a free trader. I believe in free trade. I have to say. But I have to be fair trade.
When you look at Japan, they take in money up here and we give them money down here. We get nothing by comparison. Its like peanuts.
Balance it out, fellows. Balance it out. Got to balance it.
A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. As you know, China has  its probably the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done to us. Theyve taken our money. Theyve taken our jobs. Theyve taken everything. Theyve taken so much.
And theyre creating a bubble and you know interestingly were so intertwined that now the bubble could take us down if it explodes, which at some point it might.
And weve got to be smart.
I made so much money dealing with China. I made hundreds of millions, probably billions, dealing with China.
The Bank of America building in San Francisco  I own a big chunk of that, which nobody knows. Nobody knows.
You know, all these guys come to Forbes. "Oh, Trumps worth only $5 billion or $4 billion." Or whatever. "Hes only worth $5 billion." Its like a bankrupt magazineThey dont even know my numbers. They said, "Well, we havent been able to look at about 400 of his companies."
So I filed. Interestingly, they said "Hell never run. Hell never run."
Then I announced. Then they said, "Oh, hell never file his form whatever." Thats a single page where basically youre signing your life away and it has to be done within 14 days of the announcement.
I signed my form. And they said, "Well, hell never ever put in his financials." And you have like 90 days or something. And they said, "Hell ask for extensions but hell never show because hes probably not as rich as people think."
But actually Im much richer and I put in my financials  its true. Its true.
And Forbes and another group said, "No, no, we dont know what these companies are."
I put in these massive financials, and you know, I was so proud. I might have filed if I wasnt going to run. I wanted to show people. I wanted to brag. Its such a great company Ive built.
So they said, "Hell never put in his financials." I put in the financials. And everybody  theyre much bigger. Its a much bigger  you know, very little debt, tremendous value. And really great assets. Iconic assets. You know, iconic. Doral, Turnberry in Scotland. I mean, I have some of the greatest real estates in the world. And Im very proud of it.
But they say, "Hell never file. Hell never file."
Then they see all these companies. And you know, they have boxes. And because it wasnt really meant for somebody like me, and they have these little boxes. They say, "Is it worth or does he make $1 million, from $1 million to $5 million, from $5 million to $10 million, from $10 million to $20 million?" The last box is $50 million or more. $50 million or more.
So like I have a lot of buildings that are worth much more than that. I have a lot of assets that are worth much more than that.
So it says "$50 million or more". So I checked many of them. I dont know how many. I think theres 23 of them. Can you believe it? So I checked like, I dont know, I think its 23. I could be wrong. Oh, theyll kill me if Im wrong. But Im not sure. But I think its like 23 boxes. $50 million or more.
So you know when some of these guys do to try and always marginalize you? They added up 23 50s. Now, some of the 50s are worth a billion. Some of them are worth more than a billion.

So it says "$50 million or more", I go 50. So theyll take $50 million for a building that might be worth a billion and honestly much more.
And they add them up and they say "Well, hes worth $2.9 billion." Its really  this is the press. And they have no clue. Those statements arent really meant for me  its not meant for a guy like me.
But with all of that the statements were so good. Theyre so good. Theyre so good.
And you know, one of the things Im doing and last night was incredible. We had an amazing event in Massachusetts. Right? Oh, look at this, we have a wit- what the hell are you doing in Nashville? What are you doing?
Anyway, so here I am. I spent millions of dollars during the course on jet fuel. Okay? Like a lot of money on jets.
But somebody puts up a sign $100 to go to this thing. I didnt know who did it. But somebody puts up a sign.
So all over the place, Im spending millions of dollars. Im turning down millions. I dont want your money. I dont want your money.
Somebody puts a sign up talking about $100 contribution, which you didnt have to make. But they put it up. Its all over CNN. "Trump is asking for $100."
I fly my plane some place it costs me a fortune. The fuel. The $100. The money that I raised last night, which says it all it goes towards paying off like the expense or something. The guy that had it is a great guy  Ernie. A great guy. Really successful guy. You know him, right? Ernie. Hell sell you a car any day of the week, right?
And you know the guy is  like 2,000 people showed up. Let him get a little deferment of the roast beef or whatever the hell theyre serving.
So they put up a sign. I dont want the money. I might like $4 or $5 million. Thats hard to turn down. But the hundred dollars times some people and we let the vets there, we let most of the people I think came in free. And I end up with this big story  "Trump accepting contributions".
I cant believe it. I got so angry at my people. Because somebody put up a sign saying $100. And honestly, first of all, its like peanuts. It doesnt mean anything. But they used to it to try and marginalize. They always do. They always do.
The bottom line is I am self-funding my campaign. Im self-funding. I dont want to have anybody giving. I dont need money. Now, with that being said, the small money comes in and its not a lot of money but its great money. Like Beada might send me some money. Beada will send me some money.
But a woman sent me $7 with a beautiful letter from Georgia. Another person sent me $12. Small money. And some sent me $1,000. But it doesnt amount to a lot. But that I do like coming in because they invest in the campaign.
How do I take the $7 check, right, and send it back to the person who sent it to me from Georgia? "Dear So and So, Im sorry I dont really want your money." How do you write a letter like that?
I want them to invest in it. You know, but theyre not going to tell me not to do this or not to do that for China because they are lobbyists for China and they gave me $5 million.
I had a big lobbyist asked me to have  he wanted to give me $5 million for my campaign. I turned him down. I turned him down.
And then I see this story on CNN last night. It was disgusting. That look theres a sign  $100! Somebody does a sign. It actually was a beautiful sign if you want to know the truth. It was so beautiful. It was beautifully done. And theyre doing this big thing about all day long last night about  I said we had this incredible event and they destroyed it by trying to marginalize. And thats the press. Thats the media.
Yeah, the criminal media. I mean, theres truth to it. No, because a lot of times they know its wrong.
But I just want to tell you so important to me and last night it was such an incredible event. It had to be a record for a house. The guy got a beautiful house, got a big lawn, put up a tent. But we had 2,000 people. It had to be a record.
The spirit in that group, the spirit in Alabama, the spirit was so incredible. The spirit in our last meeting in Iowa. Dont forget.
When I went to Iowa and you know what I love? Im leading with Tea Party. Big. I love Tea Party. I love the Tea Party. Tea Party people, stand up and take a bow. You have not been treated fairly. No, you havent been treated fairly.
You have not been treated fairly.

You know, people talk about the Tea Party and you talk about marginalizing, at least I have a microphone where I can fight back. You people dont.
The Tea Party people are incredible people. These are people that work hard and they love the country and then they just get beat up all the time by the media. Its disgusting.
And you will be surprised how big you are. You dont know how big you are. You dont know the power that you have. I mean it. You dont know the power that you have.
The Tea Party and you can call it anything that you want. I dont care about names. But the Tea Party has tremendous power.
I talked silent majority. But the silent majority is more than Tea Party. Its Democrats. Its poor people. Its rich people. Its everybody. Its evangelicals.
One of the things that made me so happy  Im a protestant. Im a presbyterian. Right?  is that I had a recent poll and they did a beautiful  like these polls are great. You know, guys like Jeb Bush and Hillary, they hire pollsters. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars. What do you have to do that for? Every week they come out with a new poll. Right?
Hey, Im rich. I could hire a hundred poll. I dont want to waste money. You know, why should I pay?
I know in one caselike $150,000 a month. And you know, then theyre arrogant guys. They think theyre hot stuff and they tell the candidates what to say. "Youve got to say this. Youve got to be politically correct."
No way. I dont have time to be political. No, its true. Its true.
I dont have time to be political. You know, it takes a lot of time to be politically correct.
You saw the anchor baby thing. Did you see that with where Im on? And somebody fromits the same network  CNN again  he said, "You know the name anchor baby is very insulting?" I said, "What would you call it?" And he gave me like nine words. "A baby of illegal immigrant who was brought to the country to this and that." I said, "How can I say that? Its too long."
Its anchor baby.
And then Bush  Jeb. Jeb Bush gets caught because he is such a nice person. Honestly.
If you want a nice person, honestly you should vote for Jeb. The country is going to go to hell but we wont talk of that. No, no, but if you want a nice person.
So Jeb has a memo that he signed of basically a politically correct memo. You know, dont say this, dont say that. All these things. Pages of stuff.
But one of the things  "Never use the term anchor baby."
So all of a sudden, hes using the term anchor baby just last week.
And with me, when I use it nobody criticizes me. They expect me. They gave up. Okay?
With him, they killed him. They just killed him. It didnt stop.
And then he blamed it on the Asians. He said, you know  did you see that? And then the New York Times did an editorial "How dare you attack the Asians?"
So he wanted to steer away from the Hispanics. He said, "Well, you know, the Asians come in and they also have anchor babies." And now the Asians all hate him. Its true.
But the Asians love me and I love them. I love them.
So he has a memo and he signs the memo and it says  a couple of years ago  "Dont use this term", and now hes using it because he has to.
Because baby  you know, think of it. Think of it. I want to build a wall. Okay? So easy. So easy. When this clown  Jose Reyes or whatever the hell his name  no, hes a baseball player. Ramos. Actually Jose Reyes is a baseball player. Hes a nice baseball player. But when Ramos got up the other day screaming and ranting and going crazy and I had all these reporters. Actually, the reporters were mostly on my side because they all had their hand up but this guy starts screaming.
So I even had liberal people from CBS  I actually said to the CBS guy "Yes?" and this guy stands up and starts screaming.
So when he  and I actually got a lot of credit for the way we handled him. I didnt do anything like  I didnt do anything. Except for the Times. And thats what I alluded to before. The Times said, "Donald Trump railed at him and screamed at him." I didnt scream at him. But he was screaming at me.
And much worse than that, they said I wore a toupee. Can you believe it? I dont wear a toupee, and I proved it  I wont bring anybody up. I wont bring anybody up. But I dont.
But think of it. Im in the front page of the New York Times and in the first sentence in the first paragraph has this announcer  this Hispanic announcer that nobody ever heard of  saying they called him something which means he wears a toupee. And I dont.

So, Im on the front page of the New York Times. I cant even talk about it. Im embarrassed to talk about it.
But they also said, I was essentially screaming at this guy from Univision, who I happen to be suing for $500 million. They didnt mention that.
They also didnt mention that his daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Did you know that? His daughter works for Hillary Clinton. Oh, you didnt know that. Oh. No, they didnt mention that. No, no.
They said I was wearing a toupee and I was screaming but they didnt. No, hes screaming at me.
So we very nicely  and then we let him come back and we actually had a nice talk. He actually seemed like a nice guy after he calmed down a little bit. You know, hes a very emotional man.
But, he said, "You cant build a wall because you cant do it."
So, 2,000 years ago in China  we always get back to China  2,000 years ago, the Great Wall of China  oh, wed like to have a wall. This is a serious wall. Okay? This is a wall you dont go through so easy.
They built a wall 2,000 years ago thats 13,000 miles. Think of that. Thats a big wall. Thats serious wall, right? This was 2,000 years ago. I mean, it took them like 500 years to build it so you know, I got to be a little bit  you know, took a long time. But 13,000 miles thats a long time. They had no tractors. They didnt have Caterpillars.
Of course, today, we use Komatsus because theyre made in Japan and you could buy them cheaper. How stupid is that? Because they devalued the yen so much and people are buying Komatsus instead of Caterpillars. Caterpillars stock is down. Its terrible. Well change that around. Believe me. Believe me.
But, they build this wall. Now, we have really 15  I would say  look we have 2,000 miles as opposed to 13,000. But you dont need it on all of it because some you have natural landscaping, some you have a lot of places.
And actually 10 years ago, everybody wanted the wall built. Hillary wanted it built. But they couldnt.
Because Im a great builder. What I do best is build. Im not a rendering guy. I do the building and then do the rendering. A lot of these guys come in with renderings and it never gets built. Does that make sense to anybody? Im the opposite. I get it built.
So, one of the reasons it couldnt get built is because they couldnt get an approved environmental impact study. Do you believe this? No, no, they had certain snail doggers and different things. They couldnt get it. They could not get an environmental impact study approved to build a wall.
And theyre killing people. We have illegal immigrants. You see that with Kate in San Francisco. You see it with Jamiel. You see it with so many people.
Last night in Massachusetts I met some unbelievable families that have been devastated by illegal immigrants. They come into this country and kill members of their family.
Last week in California, a 66-year-old veteran  a female, a veteran, 66  got raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. Raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed. 66-years-old. By an illegal immigrant that they caught, that they caught luckily.
But this is what we have. We have stupid people in our government and we have people pouring across the border. And you know what? We have great border patrol people. I went there. You probably saw that. Thats why the hat is so successful. The white one, right?
But I went there, everybody wants to buy the hat. Now they like the white one. Then two weeks later, I wore the red one. The white one didnt sell so well. The red one sells. Crazy thing.
But I went to the border and I got to know the people and I saw people, and you know its rough stuff, its rough stuff.
And when I first came in and when I first did my opening statement that I was running for President, I talked about illegal immigration. I was killed by the press.
Rush Limbaugh, who I think is a terrific guy, said "Trump has received more incoming than any human being Ive ever seen. Then he goes and has a news conference and I think hes going to apologize and he doubles down."
I got credit. I got credit.
No, they thought I was going to apologize. And I dont mind apologizing but I have to make a mistake to apologize and I was right. No, I was right.
So for two weeks, as Rush said, I took incomingIn fact that was my first two weeks. I said "Is it going to be like this for the next year and a half?" I dont know if I can make it. It was brutal.
Now, many of those people that talked that way, many of those people, theyve apologized to me. Everybody says Im right. And only because of me is everybody talking about illegal immigration. They wouldnt even be talking about it. They wouldnt even be talking about it.

And were going to build a wall and were going to get, you know, the gang members in Baltimore and in Chicago and these are some tough dudes. Theyre going to be out so fast.
One of the first thing Im going to do is get rid of those gang members. Were going to be  you know, you look at whats going on with Baltimore, you look at whats going on in Chicago and Ferguson and St. Louis the other night. We are going to get rid of those gang members so fast your head will spin.
You know, we can be very tough. I just met your cops outside. Those police are tough cookies. Those guys  we need law and order. We need law and order.
I mean, they allowed  in one night, that first night in Baltimore  they allowed that city to be destroyed. And they set it back 35 years. One night. Because the police were not allowed to protect people. They werent allowed to protect people.
We have incredible law enforcement in this country and we have to be  the head of the police in Chicago is a person I know. Originally from New York. Hes a phenomenal guy. He can stop things if theyre allowed to stop them. He can stop it. Believe me.
We have some incredible people. But we have to be tough. We have to be smart.
You know, I know youre going to have some bad apples. Youre going to have problems. I see some of the things. You did too and its disgusting and its horrible. But thats such a tiny percentage.
The problem is the good work doesnt get shown on television. All of the good work, which is 99.9%.
I mean, the good work with the police. Its 99.9%. That one little thing.
And its horrible. I agree. I hated some of the things. I dont have to go into them. But you know the same ones because you were sick when you looked at some of them just like I was.
But we need law and order. We need our police. Theyre great people. They do a phenomenal job. Theyre right now afraid of doing anything. Theyre afraid.
I mean, I know cities. I wont mention names but I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension; they dont want to be thrown off the police force.
And then you wonder why theres crimes in our cities.
So we need a whole new mindset. We have to build up our military. We have to make our military so strong. We have to make our military so powerful and so strong that we never have to use it. We never have to use it.
We also have to focus on what we have  look, Ukraine. I want Ukraine to be healthy, vibrant and good. But Ukraine is near Germany and all of these European countries. Were now sending F-22s. Thats the newest fighters. The best in the world. Were sending fighters every  Wheres Germany? Where are all these European countries? It affects them. It affects them. And we want to stand alongside of them. I agree.
But why are we leading the fight? Putin hates us. He hates Obama. He doesnt hate us. I think hed like me. Id get along great with him I think if you want to know the truth. No, he has no respect for our President and our President doesnt like him in all fairness. They dont have good chemistry to put it mildly, would you say. But Id get along with these people.
Think of it. Every country is ripping us off. Even Russia is ripping us off because in the Iran deal, which is going to go down as one of the worst deals ever, Russia is a big beneficiary because theyre going to sell Iran missiles with the money we give to Iran. Think of that.
So one of the biggest beneficiaries is Russia. Okay?
But think of it. So, Ukraine  lets take a few of these things and then Im getting the hell out of here; Im going back to New York. Do you mind? Maybe Ill go to the Grand Ole Opry tonight. Can I do that?
Id actually rather  I love  by the way, this is not a politician speaking. Believe me. I hope. I love country music. I love it. Hey, Trace Adkins  right? And who else won on The Apprentice? Who else? John Rich. My kids love those two guys. John Rich. And who else? Who did really well? Clint Black. Right? Clint Black. He did great. And my Trace  how good is Trace, okay?
You know, Trace came onto The Apprentice. And I said, "Who the hell is he? Who is he?" I didnt know who Trace was. Id never heard of him. And he wasnt a big name. And he came on  just to show you how important this show is and his record or album or whatever you call it nowit went to number one. And then he came to me the next yearbut Trace came to me and he goes  you know, at certain awards show, I wont mention the name  but he said "Last year, I couldnt get into the show and this year Im hosting it, Mr. Trump, all because of you."
Nice, right? I know, nice.
But those three guys, theyre great and theyre just fantastic people.
But weve got to make our country so strong. We have to make our country rich again.
A person came up and said, "Oh, thats not nice." Whats not nice? They said rich, you know, to say were going to make our country rich.

We cant make our country great if were going to be poor. Were a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion.
China  think of this  China we owe $1.4 trillion to. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our base, they take our manufacturing and we owe them $1.4 trillion. How do you do that? Thats like a magic act. Right? Its true.
Japan sells us cars by the millions. They make a fortune. They come in, they sell us cars by the millions. And we owe them the exact same amount. We owe them $1.4 trillion. How come if theyre selling us cars we owe them money? Think of it. Put on your business. See? I have a natural instinct for this stuff. Right? You know? Right?
If we buy all these cars, why do we owe them money? But we owe them because they take all our money that they make and they buy our bonds. And were paying interests on them and we owe them money.
So, itll change. It can change. Its not even going to be hard.
People dont realize. See, Obama never read the Art of the Deal. People dont realize.
Oh, and somebody said Sharon. It was Sharon. Wheres Sharon? She gave me such a hard time. Wheres Sharon? Where the hell is she? You could have both Sharons stand up actually. Where are they? Both of them. Sharon is great. Oh, did they go after herShe took a lot of incoming. Sharon, did you take a lot of incoming? I think so. Right? Thank you, darling.
So, we are going to do something that if I get elected  and again they said Ill never run and nowOne guy said  John McLaughlin  you ever watch the McLaughlin Report? I like him.
And one of the people on the little group said Donald Trump is a great businessman but hell never make it as a President. Hell never get elected. Hell never make it. And John McLaughlin  this crusty guy who I like; I dont know him. I never met him, I dont think. But I like. Hes sitting there and he goes  and he got angry  he goes "Why wouldnt he make it? You tell me why. Hes been a tremendous success in everything hes done. I go all over the world. I see him name. I see his name all over. Hes a great success."
And he said  I think this is the word  "Hes a man of great achievement. Why wouldnt he make it?"
And I thought it was so nice and the other guy just sort of shut up. You know, because you need somebody of great achievement.
You need  Ive produced tens of thousands of jobs over the year. I dont have to worry about Obamacare. I take such good care of my employees. I have thousands of employees. I take good care of them. We have great plans. My employees are lucky. They hit the lotto, okay? But I take great care  education and health care  and my people are very happy.
But Ive done this for a long time, and Ive seen ups and downs. Ive seen market crashes. Ive seen friends of mine go bankrupt. Youve never seen  Ive never gone bankrupt. By the way, Ive used the laws to my advantage and companies.
I buy a company. I throw it into a chapter. I negotiate with banks. I kill. You know. And then they say "Trump goes bankrupt." These people  they dont have any 

Now, when other people do that, when a Carl does it  I mean, they do it all the time. They use it all the time. Its called using your head. Its called using the laws.
Actually I did a good job didnt I at the debate when Chris Matthews so angrily said  I do what every other great businessman does.
I buy a company  you know, its one company was sort of interesting. A friend of mine had it. Good guy. And the banks were just killing him. They were mean. And banks can be mean, right?
Youve got to teach them how to behave, right?
So this guy was just getting beaten. And I did him a favor and I called up the banks. And I said "Do me this, do this, do this, do that." They said, "We wont do that. No, we wont do that."
I said, "Youre making a mistake." Anyways, its sort of a little bit complicatedI bought it. Immediately, I called them back and said, "Dont do this." I threw it into a chapter. And they come out with the story "Trump files bankruptcy". Can you believe it? I negotiated it to hell. What I did to that bank  ayeyeye.
They see me walking down the street and they go "Hey, hey, hey." But then Im good at that stuff, you know? Im really good at that stuff.
But you have to use the laws to your advantage. No, no, you have to use it to your advantage.
Atlantic City. You know, you look at Atlantic City. Caesars went bankrupt. Whoever heard of Caesars? Caesars filed Chapter 11. Nobody cares. Everybody in Atlantic City. I had the good sense seven years ago and actually the financial media gives me great credit because I have a vision for things.
I said, "Dont go into Iraq" even though Im a very militaristic person. I said "Dont go into Iraq" and they shouldnt have because I said youre going to destabilize the Middle East. So what did we get  $2 trillion. Thousands of deaths. Thousands. Like 5,000. Wounded warriors who I love all over the place.
We cant even go there. Iran is taking over Iraq. With the money that were giving them, theyre going to take off and theyre going to get the oil, theyre going to get everything. The oil they dont get ISIS is getting. What do we get? Nothing. We get nothing. We got far less than nothing.
So I had vision in 2004  Reuters  actually it was before that but they wrote a story. Trump says dont do Iraq.
Now, Im much more militaristic than Bush, even the brother. But you got to know where to use it and when. You got to use.
So with Atlantic City, seven years ago, I got out. Thats called vision. I should get credit for vision.
And again, this isnt bragging. Normally, I wouldnt say this but I need your fricking votes. Do you understand that? Do you understand that?
I mean, normally I wouldnt. So I got great credit. I got out.
But most of the places in Atlantic City are either in trouble or theyre bankrupt. They went bankrupt.
But I made a lot of money in Atlantic City. I had a great time in Atlantic City but they asked me a nasty question, I gave a great answer. I thought. So I think I solved it.
Listen, we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if I win.
We are going to have victories again. We are going to win.
In fact, last night in front of the audience and Ive never said this before. Last night in front of the audience I said were going to have so many victories.
And then I said were going to win here. Were going to win on trade.
Were going to win militarily in terms of not having wars but just having such great strength that nobodys going to play with us. Nobodys going to mess with us. Okay? Nobody.
And were going to have victories. So many victories that are going to be coming outIn fact, you might get tired of victories. You may not want anymoreAnd everyone stood up and said "No, no, no, we want to keep winning."
If I win, we will have victories all over. We will win on trade. We will win on health care. We will win on everything.
I will protect your Social Security without cuts. I will protect your Medicare and your Medicaid. We are going to have something thats so special.
And you know, my whole fame is and Ill say it once. We will make America truly great again.
And thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much!

Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Great honor, thank you. This is a wonderful day. On a Saturday morning yet. Isn't that nice? Thank you, all. And we're going to have an incredible convention. It's really going well. We're going to have an incredible convention. And we're going to get things solved, and we're going to do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.
So I'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, and the White House, to fix our rigged system  we are in a rigged, rigged system  and to make America safe again and to make America great again.
I want to also address the Islamic terror attack in France. We've witnessed horror beyond belief, no matter where you look. And now it's happening more and more. And it's never going to stop.
We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our country law and order. And if I'm elected president, that will happen.
I want to express our unyielding support for the people of France, and we mourn their loss as a nation.
And as far as Turkey is concerned, so many friends in Turkey, great people, amazing people. We wish them well. It looks like they're resolving the difficulty, but we wish them well. A lot  a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll all work out.
Now, as, hopefully, the next president of the United States, I want to refer back to what's happened over the years. The Middle East today is more unstable than ever before. Never been like this. Out of control. After four years of Clinton, who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path, because I don't even think he could have made these decisions so badly, she led him right down a horrible path. He didn't know what he was doing.
Iraq, Syria, all into chaos. And Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons. And on top of that, we gave them back $150 billion, and we didn't get our hostages until the end. Now we're seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of Obama-Clinton. You just have to look, every single thing they touched has turned to horrible, horrible, death-defying problems.
We also need to bring back in this country  because we see what happened  our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. They've been taken away, like we're babies. Taken away. And we're going to bring them back.
I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society and a prosperous  really prosperous society for all Americans. Indiana Governor Mike Pence was my first choice. I've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of Indiana. And I'm going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute.
But I also admire the fact that he fights for the people, and he's going to fight for you. He is a solid, solid person.
Governor Pence served Indiana with distinction in Congress. He rose to leadership and served as the chairman of the entire House Republican Conference. Number one. He's really got the skills of a highly talented executive, leading the state of Indiana to jobs, growth, and opportunity, in spite of the relentless obstacles put in his way and every state's way by the Obama administration. It's horrible out there. High taxes and regulations. And it's out of control.
Mike Pence is a man of honor, character, and honesty. We know that. Hillary Clinton is the embodiment of corruption. She's a corrupt person. What she's done with her e-mails, what she's done with so many things, and I see the ads up all the time, the ads. She's totally bought and paid for by Wall Street, the special interests, the lobbyists, 100 percent. She's crooked Hillary.
And I think that, while she got away with murder, in fact, I think it might be her greatest accomplishment, escaping the recent scandal, and her lies, and the loss of 33,000 e-mails  but it wasn't a loss, she discarded  that in itself is a major crime. Other people have been paying tremendous prices for what they've done, which is peanuts compared to what happened with Hillary Clinton.
Thirty-three thousand e-mails are missing, and that's OK? Didn't give them to the FBI? Didn't give them to the attorney general, and that's OK? Wipes her server clean, that's OK? These are crimes. These are crimes. And how she got away with it, I think I understand it, but I think a lot of people don't.
But I do believe, while she didn't pay the price she should have paid, she's going to pay that price when November 8th rolls around. She's going to pay it at the polls. I believe that.
On top of everything else, Hillary made $21.6 million giving speeches to special interests in a short period of time. She's totally owned by Wall Street. We believe in Americanism; she believes in globalism. And it's not that she believes in it. The people that give her all of this money believe in it. And she'll believe in whatever they want her to believe. Believe me. That's it.
What a difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Mike Pence.
Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: Radical Islam. Radical Islamic terrorism. You saw it the other day with the truck screaming out the window. You heard what he was screaming out the window. You saw it in San Bernardino. You saw it at the World Trade Center. You saw it in Orlando. How horrible was that? You saw it in Paris. You see it all over.
And Hillary is a weak person. We are the law and order candidates, and we're the law and order party. We're going to change things around. There's going to be respect again for law and order.
Hillary Clinton's foreign policy helped launch ISIS. You know, she's talking  I see the ads she puts on. If I make one statement, which is fine, she'll take that statement and put on a totally dishonest ad, because she's got a lot of money because it's given to her by the lobbyists and by the special interests. Got a lot of money.
But I see the ads on foreign policy. She's talking about Donald Trump doesn't have foreign policy experience. Of course not. I've been a very, very, very successful businessperson. I mean  but  but if you look at my calls, I said, don't go into Iraq. Nobody cared, because I was a businessperson. I was a civilian. Take the oil. Many, many calls I've made.
You take a look. I said that in Scotland and in the U.K., that was going to happen. I was the one that predicted it. And everybody said, he's wrong, he's wrong. President Obama said, if it happens, they're going to get to the back of the line, which probably is one of the reasons they lost, because I consider it a win. I think it was a win for them, actually, because they don't want to be told what to do. And they don't want to be told that when people pour into the country, they have to take them even if they're not qualified, even if they don't have paperwork, even if they have no idea where they come from.
And I said that Brexit's going to happen. I said that they are going to break away. And everybody laughed at me. And the odds were 20 percent. And then when it happened, she took an ad saying, oh, Donald Trump said this or that, but I'm the one that said it was going to happen. And some of the more fair reporters  about 30 percent of them  said he was right. I appreciate that. Seventy percent didn't, so that's OK.
So Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy. So important. Now, I think if you look at one of the big reasons that I chose Mike  and one of the reasons is party unity, I have to be honest. So many people have said party unity. Because I'm an outsider. I want to be an outsider. I think it's one of the reasons I won in landslides. I won in landslides. This wasn't close. This wasn't close.
Now, this wasn't close. This was  in the history of the Republican Party, history, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran against one, two, and three. There were 17. We got  I say we, because I'm the messenger, I'm a messenger  I'm doing a good job, but I'm a messenger  we got almost 14 million votes. That's more than any other person in the history of the Republican Party in the primary system running for president.
Think of it. That's more than Ronald Reagan, who we love. That's more than Richard Nixon. It's more than Dwight D. Eisenhower. You know, he won the Second World War, in all fairness. Pretty good. It's more than the Bushes.
But I mean by a lot. I don't mean by a little. But that's with 17 people. People don't over-say that. That means our message is unbelievable. And I want to thank all of the loyal people  because I have such loyal, unbelievable people, and they displayed that just yesterday in Cleveland, where it's going to be so amazing.
But they displayed it. It was on display, where we had this group of people, who  many of whom I've known, and I won't say, because for party unity, I'll say they're wonderful people, OK? Never Trump, they said, never Trump, never Trump. Oh, we're going to win. They got crushed. And they got crushed immediately, because people want what we're saying to happen.
They're tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, that has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about in the world, that has regulations that don't allow you to start a business and destroy your business if you do start  and, by the way, speaking of destroying businesses, we're going to take care of the miners and we're going to take care of the steelworkers. We're going to put them back to work.
So they're very tired of it. But I want to thank all of those people that  delegates that were on the different committees, because, boy, was that something. Did we show them something. And unfortunately, the vote was very late. But essentially, we had 112- 12. This was the vote that was going to put it onto the floor and we're going to have a big fight. We're not going to have a fight. People agree with what we've  they want the wall. They want the borders. They want these things to happen.
And what we're doing...
And what we're doing that I'm so proud of, so proud  and nobody else would even think about doing it  I fought very hard for it. We'll call it the Johnson amendment, where he took away from the evangelicals  and I want to thank the evangelicals, because without the evangelicals, I could not have won this nomination. The evangelicals have been unbelievable. I dominated with the evangelicals. A lot of people were surprised. They say he's not perfect. But you know what? They know I'm going to get the job done, and they're really smart.
And I said  and I said for the evangelicals, that we're going to do something that nobody's even tried to do. You have the Johnson amendment passed by Lyndon Johnson and his group. And he was a powerful president. He knew how to get things done. He got bogged down in a war that was a disaster and it destroyed him. But he was a powerful president.
And we call it the Johnson amendment, where you are just absolutely shunned if you're evangelical, if you want to talk religion, you lose your tax-exempt status. We put into the platform, we're going to get rid of that horrible Johnson amendment. And we're going to let evangelicals, we're going to let Christians and Jews and people of religion talk without being afraid to talk.
I saw this. I had so many great leaders so many times up to my office, the top  the absolute top evangelical leaders, Christian leaders, Jewish leaders, believe it or not, some Muslim leaders  people are going to be surprised to hear that  I had the top leaders up to my office, and I said, why is it that you're so powerful as an individual, and yet when you get out there, you're sort of timid?
And they didn't know how to answer the question. And it took two, three meetings before I figured it out. One great, great gentleman that everybody knows, but whose name I will not reveal, said, Mr. Trump, we live in fear in our churches and our synagogues. We live in fear that we're going to lose our tax-exempt status if we say anything that's even slightly political.
And I looked out the window. I was in Trump Tower, and I pointed to people walking down the street. I said, well, they have the right to speak, but you don't. That means they're more powerful than you are. We have to do something about it. How did it start? How did it start?
And they said, it started because of Lyndon Johnson. And he actually had a problem in Texas with a certain religious leader. And he did this, and he got it done. And we're going to undo it, so that religious leaders in this country, and those unbelievable people, and not because they backed me in such large numbers, but so that religion can again have a voice, because religion's voice has been taken away. And we're going to change that. OK? All right.
Back to Mike Pence. So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at Indiana, and I won Indiana big. Remember, Indiana was going to be the firewall. That's where Trump was going to  they agreed I'd win New York, I'd win Pennsylvania, I'd win all these places. But Indiana was going to be the firewall.
So I got to study Indiana, and I got to study New York and a lot of other places, and I saw how NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, has drained our manufacturing jobs, just drained us like we've never been drained before. NAFTA, again, signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is the worst economic deal in the history of our country. Manufacturing down in some states 55 percent, 60 percent. It's a horror show, moving to Mexico, moving to other places.
I have a friend who's a great builder. What he builds is plants. That's all he does, is build plants. He doesn't build buildings. He doesn't  he builds plants. It's the biggest in the world, from what I hear.
I said, how's business? I was with him the other day. How's business? He goes unbelievable. I said, really, wow, I'm surprised. Why is it unbelievable? Because I think of him as building in this country. He says, Donald, what we're doing in Mexico, you won't believe. I said, what do you mean? He said, we're building plants in Mexico the likes of which we've never seen.
I said, what about this country? Not much. Not much. That's the expression. He said exactly that. Not much. I said, but Mexico? He said, you've never seen anything like it. It's incredible.
Folks, that's going to stop. We're going to go reverse it. We're going to bring our jobs back to this country. We can't be the stupid people anymore. OK?
And he was better than a pollster. He's better than a consultant. I would say, how are we doing? And you get a big report that costs you millions of dollars. Doesn't cost me millions. Me, I give them $10,000, OK?
It costs other people millions. It costs other campaigns millions to get a report. Every time they get a report, it's millions. But I'll tell you what, a guy like this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. And he said it. He didn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about it. Just fact. How are we doing? Unbelievable in Mexico. In fact, he actually said, I've never, ever seen anything like it.
And if you look, Ford is building massive plants there instead of Michigan. We want them to build them in Michigan. They're going to build them in Michigan. And you know that I know how to do that. So easy. So easy.
But they're not going to do and they're not going to take advantage of us without retribution. There are consequences when you fire thousands of people and move to another country and then think you're going to you're your product and sell it in here. There are consequences. And those consequences are going to keep companies in our country. It's very simple. And everybody here knows what the consequences are, but I won't say that because I'm much more interested right now in Mike.
Indiana's unemployment rate  and this is the primary reason I wanted Mike, other than he looks very good, other than he's got an incredible family, incredible wife and family  Karen is amazing.
Incredible family. Highly respected. Expected to go for another four years. He would have won, I think, very easily in Indiana. Indiana, their unemployment rate has fallen, when he was there, when he started, 8.4 percent when he was governor, when he took over, to less than 5 percent in May of 2016. Since January 2013, Indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs. You have to understand, I've gone around to all these states. I've gone to all of them. And every time, I have statisticians. I say give me the stats on a state.
And it's always bad, down, down, down. Down 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent in some cases. Here's somebody where it's gone up. Private sector job growth is up by more than 147,000 jobs since 2013. That's like very unusual.
Governor Pence balanced the budget. Can you imagine a balanced budget? Our budget's so out of whack in this country, we don't know what we're doing. We're going to owe very soon $21 trillion. He balanced the budget. They don't know what that means. Governor Pence balanced the budget, produced a surplus, and maintains a $2 billion reserve fund in the state of Indiana.
It's also rated AAA, their bonds are rated AAA. Very few states have that. AAA. The best. That's as good as you can get, whether you're a company, a state, AAA.
Indiana was recently recognized by Chief Executive Magazine as the number-one state in the Midwest for business. Number one. And it's not even close. There are approximately 34,000 fewer Hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there were when Mike Pence took office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer people from Indiana.
And besides that, Bobby Knight, my friend, who really did help me. I mean, if you want a reference, Bobby Knight in Indiana, we love Bobby Knight. But he agrees with everything I'm saying. He loves the governor.
Indiana has the second-lowest unemployment rate in the nation, for veterans, where nobody's fighting for the veterans like I'm fighting for the veterans, the veterans have been left behind.
If you remember a few months ago, Hillary Clinton said really  they're doing much better, the V.A. is much better. They're doing a much better job than people give it credit for. People are dying on line waiting for five, six days for doctors. People are dying on  they can't even see a doctor. It's a scandal.
Take a look at what's happening with the V.A. in Arizona. Take a look at what's happening with  you know, just the Veterans Administration hospitals. It's a scandal. It's corrupt. It's incompetent. It's a scandal. And Hillary Clinton thought it was just fine. And, boy, am I going to win big with the veterans. I mean, we know that for a fact.
So it's now 2.4 percent for veterans. In 2013, when Mike Pence took office, the rate for veterans was 6.7 percent. It was 31st in the nation, one of the bad ones, and now it's almost the best. Got them jobs. Got them jobs.
Indianapolis is ranked second in top 10 metro areas for young college graduates. That's a great thing. They're going to stay there. That's a great thing. And Mike worked hard on that. He was telling me, that was not easy.
Under Governor Pence's leadership, Indiana enacted the largest K- 12 education funding increase in the state's history. So you're balancing budgets, and yet you're giving more money to education. Isn't that a great thing?
Indiana has just about the largest school choice program in America. School choice is where it's at, folks. You want to get your schools better, you better get rid of Common Core fast.
Governor Pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history. Think of that. We're cutting taxes and balancing budgets. And along with corporate tax reform, just about number one in the country. CNBC ranked Indiana first in the nation for its infrastructure.
So with all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets, we're spending more money on education, and the infrastructure is kept up. That had so much  look, as a builder, nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure as Donald Trump. I build infrastructure. Do I know how to build a wall? Do I know how to build infrastructure?
You know, it's very interesting. We're building  we're building  I won the  which is pretty amazing with the Obama administration, but I won the right to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House, and it's an amazing  probably the best location, one of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA, General Services. And I really like what's happened.
We're going to have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic job on it.
But I thought the other day, I was going over the numbers, we're under budget and about a year  actually more than a year  we're a year ahead of schedule, and we're under budget substantially. And the quality of the work is even better than we originally were going to do.
And when I explained to a government representative that we're under budget and ahead of schedule, they almost fell off, because they've never heard those words before. They've never heard them.
So when I see what happened to Indiana, which was having tremendous problems, when I see what happened to Indiana under Mike's work  also his predecessor did a great job, by the way, great job, who's now at Duke  who's now at Purdue  when I see what happened with respect to the numbers, the state, and everything else, that, to me, was probably the single most important point, because it's something that hasn't happened  almost has not happened in this whole country.
The turnaround and the strength of Indiana has been incredible, and I learned that when I campaigned there. And I learned that when I won that state in a landslide. And I learned that when Governor Pence, under tremendous pressure from establishment people, endorsed somebody else, but it was more of an endorsement for me, if you remember. He talked about Trump, then he talked about Ted  who's a good guy, by the way, who's going to be speaking at the convention, Ted Cruz, good guy  but he talked about Trump, Ted, then he went back to Trump. I said, who did he endorse?
So even though he was under pressure, because I'm so, you know, outside of the establishment, it was the single greatest non- endorsement I've ever had in my life, OK? I will tell you.
So with that, I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be outstanding in every way and will be the next vice president of the United States, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.

7/12/2016
WOW. WOW! [ CHEERING ] WHOA! THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THANK YOU, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. ALL RIGHT. LET'S TURN THAT MUSIC DOWN. WE WANT TO GET TO BUSINESS, RIGHT? GET TO BUSINESS. HOW IS YOUR GOVERNOR DOING, BY THE WAY? GOOD? I THINK SO. I THINK SO. I JUST WANT TO THANK ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA. YOU KNOW, WE HAD A GREAT VICTORY HERE NOT SO LONG AGO. AND INDIANA WAS THE STATE THAT PUT ME OVER THE TOP. THANK YOU, FOLKS. THANK YOU. [ CHEERING ] WELL, WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS TO DISCUSS, BUT WE HAD SOME VERY BAD NEWS A FEW DAYS AGO, AND YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED. A LOT OF BAD THINGS ARE HAPPENING. AND I WAS GOING TO GO THROUGH A WHOLE LITANY OF THAT, BUT WE DON'T WANT TO. WE WANT TO BE UPBEAT. WE WANT TO BE POSITIVE. WE WANT TO BE STRONG. AND WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONG. WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONGER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BE GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING BRING OUR MILITARY BACK. IT'S BEING DEPLETED SO BADLY. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS, WHICH WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF. WE'RE GOING TO GET RID OF OBAMACARE, WHICH IS A DISASTER. [ CHEERING ] AND REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING TERRIFIC. WE END COMMON CORE. WE BRING OUR EDUCATION BACK TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS LOCAL COMMUNITY WHERE THE PEOPLE LOVE THEIR CHILDREN AND THEY WANT TO SEE THEIR CHILDREN BE WELL EDUCATED. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. AND IT'S UNDER SIEGE. YOU KNOW, I WROTE A FEW WORDS TODAY. AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE GO THROUGH IT AS A GROUP. IT'S BEEN A SPECIAL PLACE AND YOU'RE SPECIAL PEOPLE. AND I KNOW SO MANY PEOPLE TONIGHT IN THE AUDIENCE. AND YOU'RE ALL OVER. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS UP THERE, FOLKS. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS. THEY DON'T STOP. THEY DON'T STOP. BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY I WROTE THIS QUICKLY, BUT IT MEANS IT CAME RIGHT FROM THE HEART. AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT OUR WHOLE NATION GRIEVES AND MOURNS FOR THE LOSS OF FIVE HEROS IN DALLAS, LAW ENFORCEMENT. THESE WERE GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE. GREAT PEOPLE. [ APPLAUSE ] WE PRAY FOR THEIR FAMILIES. WE PRAY FOR THEIR LOVED ONES. WE PRAY FOR ALL THE WOUNDED SURVIVORS. WE PRAY FOR OUR COUNTRY. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. THE POLICE ARE NOT JUST PART OF OUR SOCIETY. OUR POLICE ARE THE BEST OF OUR SOCIETY. REMEMBER THAT. WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT. THEY REPRESENT OUR HIGHEST IDEALS, OUR GREATEST VALUES, AND OUR MOST NOBLE CHARACTERISTICS. WHEN OUR POLICE ARE ATTACKED, OUR ENTIRE NATION IS ATTACKED. REMEMBER THAT. REMEMBER THAT. SO THE MESSAGE MUST BE DELIVERED CLEARLY FOR ALL TO HEAR, THE HOSTILITY AGAINST OUR POLICE HAS TO END, AND IT HAS TO END RIGHT NOW. AND WE HAVE TO SAY TOGETHER, AND WE HAVE TO BE STRONG. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYONE. THE TWO PEOPLE THAT WERE KILLED IN LOUISIANA AND MINNESOTA, IT WAS TOUGH. IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH FOR EVERYBODY HERE IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH. WE HAVE TO FIGURE IT OUT. WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS GOING ON. WAS IT TRAINING? WAS IT SOMETHING ELSE? IT COULD HAVE BEEN SOMETHING ELSE. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYBODY. REMEMBER THAT. BUT WE HAVE TO ALSO -- WE HAVE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THINGS. WE HAVE TO. BUT WE CAN NEVER, EVER FORGET THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF GREAT DEALS AND GREAT THINGS THAT OUR POLICE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY DO, AND NOBODY RECOGNIZES THEM FOR WHAT THEY DO. AND WHEN THERE IS A PROBLEM, AS BAD AS THESE TWO SITUATIONS WERE, AND I PERSONALLY THINK THEY WERE, THEY WERE BAD. I HATED, I HATED WATCHING IT. BUT AS BAD AS THEY WERE, THEY GET BROADCAST ALL OVER THE WORLD FOR DAYS AND DAYS, AND ALL OF THE GOOD THINGS WHICH ARE MAGNIFIED THOUSANDS OF TIMES, NOBODY TALKS ABOUT. SO WE HAVE TO REMEMBER, WE HAVE TO CHERISH AND TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE. IF WE DON'T, IF WE DON'T, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE. WE HAVE A COUNTRY IN CHAOS. AND REMEMBER THIS. AND I SAY IT ONCE, AND I SAY IT WITH LOVE, AND I SAY IT WITH COMPASSION. BECAUSE I HAVE LOVE FOR OUR COUNTRY, AND I HAVE GREAT COMPASSION FOR OUR PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY. BUT I AM THE LAW AND ORDER CANDIDATE. WE NEED LAW AND ORDER, AND WE NEED STRENGTH IN THIS COUNTRY. WE DON'T HAVE STRENGTH IN OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE CROOKED HILLARY CLINTON, AS CROOKED AS YOU GET. I MEAN, YOU SAW THAT WITH THE E-MAILS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM, FOLKS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. JUST REMEMBER IT. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. IT'S RIGGED IN SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS. WE'RE GOING TO STRAIGHTEN IT OUT. YOU CAN'T EVEN WATCH WHAT HAPPENS. WE HAD A YOUNG MAN WHO DID NOTHING BY COMPARISON TO WHAT SHE DID, AND HE WARNED HIS FRIENDS OF A PROBLEM THAT WAS COMING MILITARILY. AND THEY CAME DOWN ON HIM WITH A VENGEANCE. AND THEY LET HER GO. 33,000 MISSING E-MAILS. THEY LET HER GO. LIES ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THEY LET HER GO. THINK OF IT. IT'S A DISGRACE. SO WE'RE GOING TO GET ON TO OTHER SUBJECTS. BUT I HAVE TO SAY LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS TO REMAIN WITH US. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE AND OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS. WE'RE GOING TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A FABULOUS JOB. WE'RE GOING TO REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A GREAT JOB. AND EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, PROBLEMS WILL HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF THOSE PROBLEMS. AND THEY CAN BE BAD PROBLEMS. BUT WE ARE GOING TO TREAT OUR POLICE WITH RESPECT. REMEMBER THAT. OKAY? NOW I'M LOOKING AT DIFFERENT RATES AND DIFFERENT CRIMES. AND YOU SEE THE CRIME RATE IN LARGE PORTIONS OF OUR COUNTRY IS GOING WAY UP. YOU LOOK AT CERTAIN INNER CITIES, AND LOOK AT CHICAGO. LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON. SINCE PRESIDENT OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT, ALMOST 5,000 KILLINGS IN CHICAGO. AND NOBODY TALKS ABOUT IT. WELL, WE'RE GOING TO START TALKING ABOUT IT. BECAUSE WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS A SAFE COUNTRY. AND, YOU KNOW, I WOULD SAY TWO WEEKS AGO, A MONTH AGO, I WOULDN'T BE SAYING THESE WORDS. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE BORDER. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE WALL. AND WE WILL BUILD THE WALL. THAT I CAN TELL YOU. I CAN TELL YOU. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD IT. DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. ARE YOU READY? WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
I DON'T HEAR YOU. WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
AND THEY WILL. VERY MUCH. THEY WILL. 100%. AND YOU KNOW WHAT? THEY'LL BE HAPPY TO PAY FOR THE WALL. WE HAVE A TRADE DEFICIT WITH MEXICO THAT YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE. BILLIONS AND BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS A YEAR. WE'RE LOSING ON THE BORDER. WE'RE LOSING ON TRADE. AND WHEN I WAS IN THE DEBATES AND I MENTIONED THIS, PEOPLE WOULD COME UP THAT I WAS DEBATING AGAINST, AND THEY USED TO SAY DONALD, YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO BUILD A WALL, ARE YOU? I SAY ABSOLUTELY. THEY SAY BUT YOU CAN'T BUILD A WALL. BUT I'M IN THE CONSTRUCTION. YOU KNOW HOW EASY A WALL IS? A WALL. WE BUILD 95-STORY BUILDINGS WITH BATHROOMS. THAT'S TOUGH CONSTRUCTION, NOT A WALL. WALLS DON'T HAVE BATHROOMS. AND BATHROOMS ARE ALWAYS TOUGH. BUT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A VERY BIG BEAUTIFUL GATE IN THAT WALL, BIG AND BEAUTIFUL. AND THAT GATE IS GOING TO BE OPEN. AND IT'S GOING TO BE WIDE OPEN FOR PEOPLE TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY, BUT THEY'RE GOING TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY LEGALLY. THEY'RE GOING TO COME IN LEGALLY. AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT LOVE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT HATE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY COME FROM. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT COME FROM THE MIGRATION THAT DON'T HAVE PAPERWORK, THAT DON'T HAVE PASSPORTS, THAT WE HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE FROM. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THEIR MOTIVES ARE. WE'RE GOING TO SAY NO. SORRY. NO. AND WE'LL HELP. AND IN SYRIA, WE'LL BUILD SAFE ZONES, AND WE'LL GET OTHER PEOPLE TO PUT UP THE MONEY, BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO OWE VERY SOON 20 TRILLION, TRILLION WITH A T. NOBODY EVEN KNOWS WHAT IT MEANS. WE'RE GOING TO OWE -- RIGHT NOW, CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS? $20 TRILLION. SOON GOING TO $21 TRILLION. SO WE'RE GOING GET THE GULF STATES WHO HAVE SO MUCH MONEY, FOLKS. SO MUCH MONEY. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM TO PUT UP THE MONEY AND OTHERS. AND WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. AND WE'RE GOING HAVE COMPASSION. BUT WE CAN'T ALLOW THEM TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS RIGHT NOW. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN ORLANDO. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN SAN BERNARDINO. WE CAN'T ALLOW IT TO HAPPEN. SO WE'RE GOING TO BUILD SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE OTHER PEOPLE FUND THESE SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD UP OUR MILITARY. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER BEEN IN IRAQ. BUT ONCE WE WENT INTO IRAQ, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER LEFT THE WAY WE LEFT. WE LEFT LIKE FOOLS. WE WENT IN, SHOULD HAVE NEVER HAPPENED. I DIDN'T WANT TO GO FROM THE BEGINNING, AND I HAVE PROOF FROM THE BEGINNING. I DIDN'T WANT IRAQ. I SAID YOU'RE GOING TO DESTABILIZE THE ENTIRE MIDDLE EAST, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. BUT THEN WE WERE THERE. LOSING THOUSANDS OF LIVES, SPENDING TRILLIONS AND TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS. PROBABLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST WE'RE UP TO $4 TRILLION. AND WE'RE IN WORSE SHAPE NOW THAN WE WERE 15 YEARS AGO BEFORE THE WHOLE DEAL STARTED. FAR WORSE. NOT EVEN CLOSE. FAR WORSE. FAR WORSE. SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS WE'RE GOING TO START THINKING SMART. WE'RE GOING TO BE SMART AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT MILITARY, AND BY THE WAY, I SAID FOR YEARS WE'VE GOT TO KEEP THE OIL. I SAID KEEP THE OIL. YOU LEAVE, YOU KEEP THE OIL. WE DIDN'T DO IT. WE DIDN'T DO IT. I SAID IT FOR YEARS. ONCE WE WERE IN, I SAID WHEN WE GET OUT, IT'S GOING TO BE A DISASTER, BUT WHEN WE GET OUT, WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE. AND I HATE SAYING THAT. BUT WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER, CERTAINLY, THAN IT IS RIGHT NOW. CAN'T BE ANY WORSE. BUT I ALWAYS SAID KEEP THE OIL. BUT WE DIDN'T KEEP THE OIL. SO WHO HAS THE OIL RIGHT NOW? A LOT OF THE OIL IS HAD BY ISIS. AND WE CREATED ISIS. AND HILLARY CLINTON THROUGH HER INCOMPETENCE DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY CREATED ISIS. AND NOW SHE WANTS TO GET RID OF IT. SHE SAYS YES, WE WILL FIGHT ISIS. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT WITH STUPIDITY, WITH STUPID, STUPID POLICY. POLICY THAT'S ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT. AND THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED. AND SO NOW WE HAVE PROBLEMS ALL OVER THE PLACE. WE HAVE OUR CITIES EXPLODING. WE HAVE ISIS LOOKING AT US. AND BY THE WAY, WHEN OUR ENEMIES ALL OVER THE WORLD, INCLUDING OUR FRIENDS ALL OVER THE WORLD LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING TO OUR COUNTRY, WHERE THE OTHER NIGHT YOU HAD 11, THINK OF IT, 11 CITIES POTENTIALLY IN A BLOWUP STAGE. MARCHES ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES, AND TOUGH MARCHES, ANGER, HATRED, HATRED. STARTED BY A MANIAC THAT SOME PEOPLE ASKED FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR HIM. FOR THE KILLER, FOR THE KILLER. OKAY? SO WHEN OUR ENEMIES LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON WITH OUR COUNTRY, THEY SEE OUR DEFICITS. THEY SEE WE DON'T WIN ANYMORE. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN AT ANYTHING. I ALWAYS SAY WHEN I WAS GOING, WHEN I WAS YOUNG GOING TO HIGH SCHOOL AND GOING TO COLLEGE AND BEFORE THAT WE NEVER LOST. YOU KNOW, UNITED STATES, THEY SAID HAD NEVER LOST A WAR. NOW WE NEVER WIN. WE DON'T WIN ON TRADE. WE DON'T WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. OUR MILITARY IS SO DEPLETED, OUR MILITARY HAS FIGHTER JETS THAT ARE IN USE FLOWN BY GREAT, GREAT AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT ARE SO OLD, AND THEY CAN'T GET PARTS FOR THE FIGHTER JETS. THESE ARE PEOPLE FLYING THESE JETS NOW IN COMBAT. THEY CAN'T GET PARTS. SO THEY GO TO THE PLANE GRAVEYARDS IN THE DESERTS. THEY GO TO MUSEUMS WHERE THEY HAVE SIMILAR PLANES, AND THEY STRIP APART TO USE FOR OUR FIGHTER PILOTS TO FLY. THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN REDUCED TO. AND I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING. HILLARY CLINTON IS INCOMPETENT, OKAY. THE GREATEST SINGLE THING IN MY OPINION THAT SHE'S EVER DONE IS TO GET OUT OF THE E-MAIL PROBLEM. I THINK IT IS INCREDIBLE. SHE DID A GREAT JOB ON THAT. I THINK IT IS HER GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT. I THINK WHEN THEY LOOK BACK ON HILLARY CLINTON, THEY WILL SAY THE GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT OF HILLARY CLINTON WAS GETTING OUT OF THIS PROBLEM WITH E-MAIL TZ. HOUDINI COULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN OUT. SHE WAS SO GUILTY. I HAVE A LIST. LOOK. PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES -- PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES. ALL OVER. LOOK AT THIS. PAGE, PAGE. LOOK, I DON'T WANT TO READ IT TO YOU. THE PRESS WOULD SAY, YOU SHOULD SPEND YOUR ENTIRE SPEECH TALKING ABOUT HILLARY CLINTON AND THE E-MAILS. I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT. YOU KNOW WHAT, IT WAS ALL LIES, FOLKS. I DON'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH AND BORE EVERYBODY. IT WAS SO HORRIBLE. IT WAS SO DISGUSTING. IT WAS SO OUTRAGEOUS. YOU LOOK AT GENERAL PETRAEUS AND LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM FOR A TINY FRACTION OF WHAT CROOKED HILLARY DID. YOU LOOK AT OTHER PEOPLE, FOR A TINY FRACTION, LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM. SO I JUST TELL YOU THIS, WE HAVE A CANDIDATE ON THE OTHER SIDE WHO, IF SHE EVER GETS ELECTED, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE DISGUSTING YEARS OF OBAMA, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF WEAKNESS, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF CIVIL UNREST. IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF NOT WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY AND NOT WINNING AGAINST ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE HOW TO BEAT ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE. BUT IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA, AND OBAMA CARE AND ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT DON'T WORK. EXCEPT I THINK ACTUALLY IT WILL BE WORSE. TODAY I SEE BERNIE SANDERS GAVE HER THIS VERY YOU KNOW, SORT OF STRANGE ENDORSEMENT. I WANT TO TELL YOU, A LOT OF BERNIE SANDERS PEOPLE ARE SO UPSET ABOUT IT, THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. I REALLY BELIEVE THAT. THEY'RE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. BECAUSE THE ONE THING THAT BERNIE SANDERS AND I HAVE IN COMMON WAS TRADE. NOW HE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT. HE JUST KNEW IT WAS BAD. I KNOW HOW TO FIX IT. BECAUSE I AM IN FAVOR OF FREE TRADE. A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY I'M AN ISOLATIONIST, WHEN YOU LOSE $800 BILLION A YEAR ON TRADE DEFICITS, MAYBE THAT IS NOT THE WORSE THING. BUT WE'LL STRAIGHT IT OUT. I BELIEVE IN OPEN BORDERS FOR TRADE AND FREE TRADE. THE PROBLEM WE HAVE IS THAT VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE COUNTRY THAT DEALS WITH US ARE FAR SHARPER AND FAR BETTER. THEY HAVE THEIR BEST NEGOTIATORS. WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE POLITICAL HACKS NEGOTIATING FOR US AND PEOPLE THAT DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING. I HAVE THE GREATEST BUSINESSMEN IN THE WORLD THAT HAVE ENDORSED ME, INCLUDING PEOPLE LIKE CARL ICAHN, GREAT BUSINESSMAN. WE HAVE SOME OF THE GREATEST NEGOTIATORS, MAYBE THE GREATEST IN THE WORLD AND WE DON'T USE THEM. WE USE POLITICAL HACKS. WE HAVE PEOPLE IN THERE THAT GOT IN FOR POLITICS. YOU COULD LOOK AT THE BIGGEST COMPANIES IN THE WORLD, AND IT IS SMALL POTATOES. IT IS PEANUTS COMPARED TO SOME OF THE MASSIVE TRADE DEALS. AND WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT SHOULD NEVER BE NEGOTIATING TRADE DEALS. JUST LIKE WE HAVE SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN, AND WHAT THEY DID TO HIM AND YOU BECAUSE HE HAS NO IDEA WHAT THE HELL HE WAS DOING AND WHAT HE GAVE AWAY, ISRAEL IS IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, FRANKLY WE'RE IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, AND WE MADE A POWER OUT OF IRAN. WE MADE A POWER. NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GONE IN AND NEGOTIATED THAT DEAL UNTIL WE GOT OUR HOSTAGES BACK. EVER. EVER. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER, EVER GONE IN. AND WHAT YOU SAY IS, FOLKS, WE HAVE TO GET THEM BACK. AND IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GIVE THEM BACK, YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. AND YOU DOUBLE UP YOUR SANCTIONS, YOU WOULD HAVE HAD THEM BACK WITHIN 24 HOURS, I GUARANTEE YOU THAT. BUT WE DSHTIDN'T DO THAT. I KEPT WAITING FOR THE WHOLE DELEGATION, I KEPT WAITING FOR THEM TO LEAVE, TO GET UP AND LEAVE. I USED TO SAY GET UP AND LEAVE. PERFECT. GET UP. WE DIDN'T WIN ANYTHING. THE ONLY TIME THAT KERRY LEFT WAS AT 73 YEARS OLD TO GO INTO A BICYCLE LACE WHERE HE FELL AND BROKE HIS LEG, RIGHT. AND I ALWAYS TELL PEOPLE, I PROMISE YOU I WILL NEVER ENTER A BICYCLE RACE WHEN I'M IN THE MIDST OF AN IMPORTANT NUCLEAR NEGOTIATION, I PROMISE. I PROMISE. BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT, NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN THEM BACK. AND THE OTHER THING, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GIVEN THEM BACK THE $150 BILLION. AND I WOULD HAVE SAID VERY NICELY, MY FATHER USED TO THINK I WAS A LITTLE BIT ROUGH, AND HE USED TO GO, EASY, SON. SON, TAKE IT NICE AND EASY. YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. HE HAD AN EXPRESSION. GOOD FATHER. WE ALL HAVE GREAT FATHERS, I HOPE. I HAD A GOOD FATHER. BUT I LEARNED A LOT. HE SAID, AND HE WOULD GO LIKE THIS THE LUMPS OUT. TAKE THE LUMPS. EASY. NICE AND EASY. TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. WHAT DO YOU MEAN, POP? YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. AND OVER THE YEARS, I THINK I LEARNED THAT. MADE GREAT DEALS AND BUILT A GREAT COMPANY. GREAT COMPANY. TOOK ADVANTAGE OF EVERY SINGLE THING YOU CAN BECAUSE YOU ARE WORKING FOR YOURSELF AND FAMILIES AND YOUR EMPLOYEES AND TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THE LAWS, SOME OF THE LAWS ARE THE DUMBEST LAWS I'VE EVER SEEN AND SO STUPID BUT YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. YOU'RE LIKE A BUSINESS PERSON, RIGHT, GOT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. BECAUSE YOU ARE REALLY REPRESENTING YOUR EMPLOYEES, YOUR COMPANY AND YOUR FAMILY. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD HAVE SAID ON THE 150. IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN I'M YOUNG, I WOULD SAY WE'RE NOT PAYING YOU BACK THE 150 BILLION, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT. AND THERE COULD BE A LOT OF HARD FEELING IN THE ROOM. TAKE A WHILE -- THEY WILL STILL COME BACK, DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. BECAUSE THEY NEED US. THEY NEED US. AND THEN I WOULD HAVE LEFT AND HERE GO THE SANCTIONS. I WOULD HAVE DONE TWO THINGS. NUMBER ONE, HOSTAGES BEFORE WE UTTER THE FIRST WORD. AND NUMBER TWO -- AND HOW LONG WERE THE HOSTAGES THERE. THAT NEGOTIATION TOOK FOREVER AND WE DIDN'T WIN A POINT. WE LOST EVERYTHING. THEY'RE GOING TO BE A NUCLEAR POWER AND THEY ARE RICH AND POWERFUL. HOW ABOUT YEMEN. THEY ARE FIGHTING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF YEMEN. AND THEY'RE FIGHTING AND WEE FIGHTING. WHY DIDN'T THEY MAKE THE DEAL TO GET OUT OF YEMEN AND KERRY SAID BECAUSE HE DIDN'T WANT TO COME PLIBLG ATE -- COMPLICATE THE NEGOTIATIONS. THEY DON'T WANT TO BRING SOMETHING ELSE TO COMPLICATE IT. THESE ARE AMATEURS. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD SAY. WE WOULDN'T BE NEGOTIATING BECAUSE OUR PRISONERS WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK YEARS AGO. I WOULD HAVE SAID, LOOK, FELLAS, HERE IS THE STORY. WE HAVE A PROBLEM. OUR COUNTRY IS FLAT BROKE. WE OWE 19 TRILLION AND GOING TO BE 20 TRILLION OR $21 TRILLION WITH THE OMNIBUS VERY SOON. I WANT TO GIVE YOU THE MONEY BACK, I REALLY DO. WE DON'T HAVE IT, I'M SORRY. THEY WOULD HAVE GONE NUTS. THEY WOULD HAVE SAID, WHAT DO YOU MEAN YOU HAVE TO GIVE US -- NO, NO, WE WANT TO. WE DON'T HAVE IT. I WANT TO SO BADLY. WE LOVE YOU. YOU'RE SUCH GREAT PEOPLE. SUCH NICE PEOPLE. SO KIND. TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY DO TO THEIR HOSTAGE AND PRISONERS AND YOU'LL FIND OUT ABOUT TOUGH PEOPLE. GREAT NEGOTIATORS. PERSIANS, GREAT NEGOTIATORS. I WOULD HAVE SAID, REMEMBER, NICE AND EASY. I WOULD HAVE RATHER DONE IT MY WAY, BUT I RESPECTED MY FATHER. SO I WOULD HAVE SAID, WE DON'T HAVE THE MONEY, CAN'T DO IT. THEY WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK IN TWO WEEKS. WE WOULD HAVE SAVED $150 BILLION. SO THOSE TWO THINGS. WE WOULD HAVE HAD OUR HOSTAGES BACK AND SAVED $150 BILLION. NOW THEY ARE SO RICH, THEY ARE BUYING AIRLINERS, THEY ARE BUYING EVERYTHING. THEY ARE BUYING PROBABLY NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE JUST DON'T KNOW ABOUT IT, OKAY. WHAT THE HELL -- DO YOU HAVE TO -- NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEM MAKING NUCLEAR WEAPONS. THEY'LL BUY THEM. THEY HAVE THE MONEY. THEY MADE SUCH FOOLS OUT OF US. FOLKS, THOSE DAYS ARE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. I CALL OBAMA THE FIVE-FOR-ONE PRESIDENT. SO WE HAVE A TRADER NAMED SERGEANT BERGDAHL. SO SERGEANT BERGDAHL THINKS HE LIKES THEIR WAY OF LIFE, OBVIOUSLY. OH, THEY HAVE A WONDERFUL WAY OF LIFE. SO ONE DAY HE LEAVES. WE LOSE FIVE AND MAYBE SIX, BUT FIVE AT LEAST PEOPLE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY WERE KILLED. THEY WERE KILLED BY THE ENEMY. THEY GO OUT THERE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY KNEW HE LEFT. EVERYBODY WITH HIM KNEW HE LEFT BECAUSE HE WAS ALL WHACKED OUT AND A BELIEVER IN THEM, NOT US. SO THEY KNEW HE LEFT. SO KNOWING THAT, THE FACT THEY HAVE A COLONEL AND I BELIEVE A GENERAL TALKING TO THE PEOPLE THAT KNEW HIM, AND THEY TOLD THE COLONEL AND THE GENERAL THAT HE LEFT. HE DESERTED. REMEMBER THE OLD DAY, A DESERTER, WHAT HAPPENED? BANG. 20 YEARS AGO, IT WAS BANG, BUT SLOWLY. TEN YEARS AGO IT WAS LONG PRISON. TODAY THEY ARE PROBABLY TALKING ABOUT NOTHING. THAT IS WHERE WE'VE COME. BUT I CALL HIM THE FIVE-FOR-ONE. SO WE GET BERGDAHL, RIGHT, A TRADER. AND THEY GET FIVE OF THE MOST VICIOUS KILLERS THAT THEY HAVE, THAT THEY'VE BEEN AFTER FOR NINE YEARS TO GET THEM OUT AND THEY BRING THEM AND THEY ARE BACK ON THE BATTLEFIELD TRYING TO KILL EVERYBODY, INCLUDING US. THIS STUFF HAS GOT TO STOP, FOLKS. AND GITMO, WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE GOING TO FILL IT UP. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. AND I SEE HILLARY CLINTON SAID, I DO NOT LIKE DONALD TRUMP'S TONE. LOOK, HERE IS THE STORY. I THINK I HAVE A GREAT TEMPERAMENT. SHE USES THE WORD TEMPERAMENT BUT I LOVE WHEN SHE USES THE WORD TONE. THEY ARE CHOPPING HEADS OFF OF CHRISTIANS AND EVERYBODY ELSE. WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT SINCE MEDIEVAL TIMES. YOU READ THE HISTORY BOOKS, THEY CHOPPED OFF HEADS. WELL, THEY ARE CHOPPING OFF HEADS. THEY ARE DROWNING PEOPLE IN STEEL CAGES, BY THE DOZENS, AT A TIME. AND SHE SAYS, WE DON'T LIKE HIS TONE. LET ME TELL YOU, FOLKS, IT IS TIME FOR A TOUGH TONE. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THINGS THE SMART WAY. I REMEMBER DURING THE DEBATE THEY ASKED ONE OF THE FOLKS ON THE DEBUT STAGE WHO IS BECOMING FRIENDLIER AND FRIENDLIER BY THE DAY WITH ME, WHICH SOME OF THE PEOPLE ARE RECOVERING. IT WAS -- I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. THEY SAY IT WAS THE NASTIEST PRIMARY THAT ANYBODY HAS SEEN. THEY SAY THE NASTIEST IN RECORDED HISTORY. WHO KNEW WHAT WENT ON BEFORE RECORDED. BUT IT WAS PRETTY NASTY. AND SOME OF THE FOLKS, I SAW ONE YESTERDAY, I WILL NOT EVEN MENTION NAMES BECAUSE I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY, RIGHT. I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH THEM. EXCEPT FOR THE REAL ENEMY. BUT THEY'LL SIGN A DOCUMENT, ALL RIGHT, IT IS CALLED A PLEDGE. I PLEDGE -- I PLEDGE, I SWEAR, I PLEDGE THAT IF I DON'T MAKE IT, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE NOMINEE OF THE PARTY. IT DOESN'T SAY, SUBJECT TO CHANGE, SUBJECT TO THE WEATHER, SUBJECT TO THE SUN DOESN'T COME UP. NO. IT SAID, I PLEDGE. AND FOR THAT PLEDGE, THEY GOT ACCESS TO MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF MATERIAL FROM THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, THE RNC. REINCE PRIEBUS, DOING A GREAT JOB. AND IF HE DOESN'T, I'LL TELL YOU. AND IF HE DOESN'T OVER THE NEXT FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS, I'LL TELL YOU. BUT THEY GOT ACCESS. SO THEY SIGNED A PLEDGE THEY WILL SUPPORT. I DON'T WANT THEIR SUPPORT. IT WON'T MEAN ONE VOTE THAN PERHAPS THEIR FAMILY. IT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING. BUT I SIGNED THE PLEDGE, TOO. AND EVERYBODY WANTED TO SIGN THE PLEDGE. AND THE REASON THEY SIGNED THE PLEDGE WAS TO GET ME TO SIGN IT. I SIGNED IT. I WOULD HAVE HONORED IT. I SAID PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR PLEDGES. PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY SIGN THEM. YOU KNOW, NOT A BIG DEAL. NOT A BIG DEAL. BUT THEY SHOULD HONOR THEM. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE'RE LOSING OUR COUNTRY. WE'RE LIKE A PIECE OF SWISS CHEESE AT THE BORDERS. THAT IS GOING TO END. THAT'S GOING TO END. YOU KNOW, THE BORDER PATROL AGENTS, 16,500, FIRST TIME IN HISTORY THEY'VE DONE THIS, THEY'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE, 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS HAVE ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP. THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY WHAT IS GOING ON AT THE BORDER. AND BY THE WAY, IF AND WHEN WE WIN, IT IS WE -- I'M JUST A MESSENGER FOLKS, I'M TELLING A MESSAGE OF COMMON STRENGTH BUT I'M JUST YOUR MESSENGER AND I'M DOING A GOOD JOB AS A MAEPGESSENGER, IN ALL FAIRNESS, BUT 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP AND WHAT THEY DO NOW IS STAND THERE WITH BEAUTIFUL EQUIPMENT, GREAT PEOPLE, PEOPLE WALK RIGHT BY THEM. THAT IS AN EASY JOB. THEY CAN'T STAND IT. BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE WHAT IS COMING INTO OUR COUNTRY. THEY WANT TO DO THEIR JOB. WITH ME, THEY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I SAID TO THEM, WHEN THEY CALLED ME TO TELL ME ABOUT THE ENDORSEMENT, NEVER DONE IT BEFORE, THEY'VE NEVER ENDORSED A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BEFORE, 16,500, GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE AND I SAID TO THEM, SO LET ME TELL YOU, I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION -- HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? THEY SAID, MR. TRUMP, THE WALL IS VITAL. I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD HAVE DONE IF THEY SAID IT IS NOT IMPORTANT. I WOULD HAVE SAID, I GUESS WE'RE NOT BUILDING IT BECAUSE I RESPECT THESE PEOPLE, THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY. THEY KNOW A HELL OF A LOT OF BETTER THAN CONSULTANTS AND PEOPLE MAKING A MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT DON'T HAVE A CLUE. WHO IS BETTER AT THAT? I SAID HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? MR. TRUMP, NEVER FORGET THE ANSWER, THE WALL IS VITAL. IT IS VITAL. VERY IMPORTANT. VERY IMPORTANT. THEY ACTUALLY SAID IT IS A TOOL TOWARD REAL SECURITY, AN IMPORTANT TOOL. AND THEN I SPOKE WITH SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO FROM ARIZONA AND HE CALLED ME OUT OF THE BLUE AND I'VE READ ABOUT SHERIFF JOE, I MEAN, HE KNOWS BORDERS, RIGHT. AMAZING GUY. TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S AN AMAZING GUY. AND HE SAID, MR. TRUMP, I JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW THAT I'M ENDORSING YOU BECAUSE YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN ANYBODY, YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN PEOPLE DOING IT FOR 25 YEARS. YOU GET IT. YOU KNOW WHAT IS HAPPENING. I'M ENDORSING YOU. AND HE'S ACTUALLY A QUALITY PERSON. HE'S A TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S A QUALITY PERSON. HE GETS THE JOB DONE. AMAZING. SO I KNOW ABOUT THAT. AND WHEN IT WAS COMING TIME FOR THE WALL, I'LL NEVER FORGET, VICENTE FOX, ON ONE OF THE MAJOR NETWORKS, USED THE F-BOMB. REMEMBER AND I TOLD THIS STORY A COUPLE OF TIMES. HE SAID, WE WILL NOT PAY FOR THE F-BOMB WALL. AND I SAID, OH, HE'S DEAD. CAN YOU IMAGINE, HEADLINES TOMORROW. HE USED IT ON LIVE TELEVISION. AND I SAID, OH, I FEEL SO BADLY FOR THE GUY. AND NOW IN ONE WAY I WAS HAPPY. BECAUSE HE USED TO SAY, WE'LL NEVER BUILD THE WALL. NOW HE'S SAYING WE'LL NEVER PAY FOR THE WALL. SO WE MADE PROGRESS. ADD LEAST HE'S NOW ADMITTING IT IS GOING TO GET BUILT, RIGHT. AND HE SEEMS LIKE A NICE GUY BUT HE GOT A LITTLE BIT ROUGH. WE WILL NEVER PAY FOR THE -- F-BOMB -- WALL. I SAID OH, THE POOR GUY HE IS GOING TO GET KILLED IN THE PAPERS. NOBODY MENTIONED IT. CAN YOU IMAGINE IF I THREW OUT THE F-BOMB. I THINK IT WILL BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR, RIGHT. WOULD IT BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR. AND THE PRESS, I WILL TELL YOU -- THE PEOPLE BACK THERE, AND I WILL TELL YOU THIS, NOT ALL OF THEM, BUT MANY OF THEM ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON THE EARTH. THEY ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I'VE HAD DAYS THAT ARE SO GOOD, AND THEN YOU WAKE UP THE NEXT MORNING AND YOU SAY, MAN, DID THEY TAKE THAT. I WON'T EVEN SAY WHAT THINGS -- I COULD GO ONE AFTER ANOTHER. AND WE DON'T MAKE A LOT OF MISTAKES, ALL OF US, WE DON'T MAKE MISTAKES BUT WHAT THEY DO IS TAKE A SENTENCE AND MAKE IT MUCH DIFFERENT THAN WHAT YOU SAID, MUCH DIFFERENT FROM WHAT YOU MEANT. AND ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'LL SAY, DONALD TRUMP HAD A BAD WEEK BECAUSE HE SAID SOMETHING PERFECT. PERFECT. OKAY. PERFECT. I'M TELLING YOU, FOLKS, AND I TELL IT ALL OF THE TIME, BECAUSE AS A REPUBLICAN, AND AS A REPUBLICAN CONSERVATIVE, WE ARE AT A TREMENDOUS DISADVANTAGE. YOU LOOK AT THE WAY THEY TREAT CROOKED HILLARY, YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THIS COMPARED TO THE WAY THEY TREAT OTHER PEOPLE, OR THE WAY THEY TREAT ME, THEY ARE SOME OF THE WORST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I REALLY MEAN IT. I REALLY MEAN IT. YOU KNOW, WHERE ARE MY PROTESTS. I WANT SOME PROTESTERS. YOU KNOW, LOOK AT THIS ROOM. THE GOVERNOR JUST SAID HE'S NEVER SEEN A ROOM LIKE THIS IN INDIANA WITH THIS MANY PEOPLE. HE'S NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. LOOK AT THIS THING. THIS IS WHERE YOUR FOOTBALL TEAM -- LOOK AT THE CEILINGS. EVERYTHING IS NIGHT. I ALWAYS TALK ABOUT THE WALL IS GOING TO BE REALLY HIGH, BUT THAT IS REALLY HIGH UP THERE. THAT IS A BIG ONE. BUT YOU DON'T SEE CROWDS LIKE THIS. WE HAVE CROWDS LIKE THIS EVERYWHERE, NO MATTER WHERE WE GO. AND EVERY TIME I GO HOME AND MY WIFE SAYS HOW WAS THE CROWD. AND I ALWAYS SAY, DIDN'T YOU SEE IT? THEY KEEP THOSE CAMERAS ON MY FACE, THEY NEVER TAKE THE CAMERAS OFF MY FACE BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE -- I WISH THEY WOULD TURN THE CAMERAS OVER HERE. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. LOOK, THE CAMERAS AREN'T MOVING. THEY ARE REALLY DISHONEST. I REALLY MEAN THIS. THEY ARE SO DISHONEST. THAT IS WHY I LOVE MY PROTESTERS. BECAUSE THE ONLY TIME THEY MOVE THE CAMERAS ARE WHEN WE HAVE A PROTEST. IF SOMEBODY WERE UP THERE SCREAMING OR SHOUTING, THE CAMERAS, WHICH I USED TO THINK WERE IN A FIXED POSITION, I SAID MAYBE MECHANICALLY THEY CAN'T MOVE, BUT WHEN WE HAVE A PROTESTER, THEY TURN AND -- THEY ARE LIKE A PRETZEL ALL OVER THE PLACE. THROUGH THE CAMERAMAN'S LEGS, UP AROUND HIS ANKLES. YOU NEVER SAW CAMERAS MOVE LIKE THIS. THE FACT IS THAT YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING. AND THE SYSTEM IS WONDERFUL IN MANY WAYS, BUT REALLY BAD IN OTHERS. AND ONE OF THE WORST ASPECTS OF OUR SYSTEM IS THE DISHONEST PRESS. THE DISHONEST MEDIA IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS. I REALLY MEAN IT. THEY WRITE AND SAY THINGS THAT ARE DISGRACEFUL. SO -- AND I LIKE TO SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT, WHEN PEOPLE SEE OR READ OR HEAR THINGS, THEY'LL SAY, I'LL TELL YOU WHAT -- ONE OF THE MOST INCREDIBLE -- PEOPLE SAY WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED? I SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT I'VE LEARNED IS HOW SMART THE PEOPLE ARE. BECAUSE THEIR RATING IS SO LOW, THEY ARE SO -- THOUGHT OF SO BADLY, IT IS LIKE HOW SMART THE PEOPLE WERE. AND I'LL SAY THIS. VARIOUS ANCHORS, SOME OF WHOM TRULY DISLIKE DONALD TRUMP HAVE SAID WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO US -- TO US, I'M THE MESSENGER, YOU'RE THE IMPORTANT ONES IN THIS WHOLE THING, BUT WHAT HAPPENED TO US IS ONE OF THE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENONS THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN THE HISTORY OF THE COUNTRY. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. BILL O'REILLY, OF COURSE I'M ON HIS SHOW TONIGHT SO IF YOU GET HOME YOU WILL SEE THE SECOND EDITION. BUT BILL O'REILLY SAID, THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME. NOW HE'S A PRO. A SMART GUY AND TOUGH. TOUGH. BUT THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME IS DONALD TRUMP AND ALL OF US, THE WHOLE THING. WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER -- WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE, SO MUCH THAT IT BECOMES ROUTINE. IN FACT, THEY JUST TOLD ME, MR. TRUMP, SIR, YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE AGAIN THIS WEEK. I SAID ALL RIGHT. IN THE OLD DAYS, I WOULD SAY THAT IS A BIG DEAL. AND NOW IT IS LIKE, REALLY, THAT IS GOOD, THAT IS ALL RIGHT. YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. I'M NOT ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. YOU'RE ON THE COVER. JUST REMEMBER THAT. SO WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS THAT ARE TAKING PLACE. WE HAVE A BADEN EMMY, WE HAVE AN ENEMY THAT IS DISHONEST AND A PRESS THAT IS DISHONEST. WE HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT WANT TO GET ELECTED WHO HAVE A RIGGED SYSTEM AND WHO HAVE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM TO A LARGE EXTENT. THEY'VE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM. SAY WHAT YOU WANT ABOUT BERNIE SANDERS, BUT THE SUPER-DELEGATES, THAT WAS WORSE THAN WHAT HAPPENED WITH US. AND FRANKLY, THE ONLY REASON I COULD WIN IS WE WON IN SUCH LANDSLIDES ALL OVER THE PLACE, INCLUDING IN INDIANA. WHAT A LANDSLIDE THAT WAS. AND WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. DO WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. OH, THAT BOBBY KNIGHT. I LOVE MY BOBBY KNIGHT. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES, GENE AND DIGGER AND BOBBY. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES. LOU, LOU HOLTS. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES THAT CAME OUT IN OUR FAVOR. I DO WELL WITH COACHES. BUT THE COACHES LIKE ME. BUT BOBBY WAS OUT HERE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I COULD SEE IT RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING. THIS WAS GOING TO BE THE WATER SHED. BUT BOBBY CAME OUT AND I CAME OUT AND WE WENT TO A RINAS -- ARENA ARENAS, YOU'VE NEVER SEEN SO MANY PEOPLE. MAYBE YOU'VE BEEN AT SOME OF THE ARENAS. IT IS AMAZING. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE HAVE TO STOP FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA. WE'VE GOT TO STOP HILLARY CLINTON, WHO IS AS CROOKED AS THEY COME. WE'VE GOT TO BRING OUR COUNTRY BACK. WE HAVE TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE DEAL THAT'S BRING OUR JOBS BACK. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG GREAT WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND TRADE WITH THESE COUNTRIES. I AM NOT AN ISOLATIONIST, I'M A FREE TRADER. BUT I'M A FREE TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEAL -- TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEALS, NOT TO MAKE HORRIBLE DEALS. ONE OF THE PEOPLE STANDING RIGHT THERE, SAID TO ME, MR. TRUMP, ARE YOU AN ISOLATIONIST, AND MR. TRUMP -- AND I SAID NO. AND WHAT IS YOUR DEFINITION OF TRADE? AND I SAID VERY SIMPLE. I KNOW FREE AND I KNOW EVERY FORM OF TRADE KNOWN TO MANKIND. HERE IS MY DEFINITION OF TRADE. MY DEFINITION OF "TRADE" IS THAT I WANT TO MAKE GREAT DEALS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. YOU CAN CALL IT WHATEVER THE HELL YOU WANT. OKAY. AND WE'RE GOING TO. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR MANUFACTURING BACK. YOU LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE MANUFACTURING SINCE BILL CLINTON SIGNED PROBABLY THE WORST DEAL ECONOMICALLY IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY, NAFTA. THAT DEAL WAS SIGNED BY BILL CLINTON. YOU LOOK AT AREAS EVEN FROM HERE, BUT YOU LOOK AT PLACES, YOU LOOK AT PLACES LIKE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK STATE AND PENNSYLVANIA, GREAT STATE -- WE'RE LEADING IN PENNSYLVANIA BY THE WAY. IT JUST CAME OUT. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN FLORIDA. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN OHIO. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THE RASMUSSEN POLL JUST CAME OUT, WE'RE LEADING NASHLTIONALLY. BUT WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO. WE ARE DEALING WITH A DISHONEST SYSTEM AND A CROOKED SYSTEM AND A RIGGED SYSTEM SO WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO FOLKS, AND WE DON'T WANT ANYBODY TO TAKE IT AWAY FROM US. AND WHEN THIS PERSON SAID TO ME, BY THE WAY, WHAT YOU'VE DONE IS NEVER DONE BEFORE, CONGRATULATIONS, IT DOESN'T EVEN MATTER IF YOU WIN OR LOSE THE ELECTION, WHAT YOU'VE DONE HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, WINNING ALL OF THE PRIMARIES, BEATING GREAT PROFESSIONALS AND THEY ARE VERY TALENTED PEOPLE, IT HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, YOU WILL GO DOWN IN THE HISTORY BOOKS, MR. TRUMP. I SAID DO ME A FAVOR. DON'T EVEN TELL ME ABOUT IT. BECAUSE IF I DON'T WIN THE NEXT ONE, I WILL CONSIDER IT A BIG, FAT WASTE OF TIME AND $55 MILLION I PUT UP, AND I'M STILL PUTTING UP A LOT MORE. AND NOW WE RAISED $51 MILLION LAST MONTH AND WE STARTED TOWARD THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH. AND EVERYONE WAS SHOCKED. AND MUCH OF THAT MONEY CAME IN SMALL DONATIONS LIKE $71 AVERAGE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT. AND I PUT UP MILLIONS. BUT I DID IT, LIKE, I WANT TO INCENTIVIZE PEOPLE AND I WANT PEOPLE TO REALIZE, I'M RAISING MONEY FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THE RNC. THAT IS WHAT WE WANT TO DO. BECAUSE WE WANT TO KEEP OUR MAJORITY. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR HOUSE. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR SENATE. BECAUSE I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, IF WE CAN DO THAT, AND WE HAVE TRUMP AS PRESIDENT, WE ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO BE SO GREAT FOR OUR COUNTRY. GOING TO BE AMAZING. YOU KNOW, WE'RE RUN OF THE HIGHEST TAXED NATIONS IN THE WORLD. AND YET IN GOING AROUND AND MEETING WITH PEOPLE, SMALL BUSINESS PEOPLE, BIG BUSINESS PEOPLE, IF THEY HAD THEIR CHANCE, AND IF THEY HAD THEIR CHOICE, THEY WOULD RATHER GET RID OF RULES AND REGULATION -- WE HAVE THE WORST REGULATIONS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. THEY ACTUALLY WOULD RATHER PAY MORE TAX, WHICH IS SURPRISING, AND GET RID OF THESE REGULATIONS THAT ARE CHOKING EVERYBODY. PEOPLE CAN'T RUN THEIR BUSINESSES. SO WE'RE GOING TO TURN THINGS AROUND. WE'RE GOING TO TURN THEM AROUND FAST. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LOSE CARRIER AIR-CONDITIONING FROM INDIANAPOLIS. YOU KNOW THAT DEAL VERY WELL. THOSE PEOPLE HAVE FOLLOWED ME ALL OVER THE PLACE. 1400 PEOPLE, OUT OF JOBS, VISUALLY THEIR MOVING TO MEXICO. ANY OF THE CARRIER FOLKS IN THIS ROOM? BECAUSE WE HAVE -- WE HAVE A LOT -- LOOK AT THAT. WHY ARE YOU IN THE BACK ROW. YOU SHOULD BE IN THE FRONT ROW. BUT WE HAD -- DURING THE SEASON, WE HAD SO MANY OF THEM THAT FOLLOWED US AROUND. THEY FELT SO BADLY. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET THAT HAPPEN. PEOPLE AND COUNTRIES TAKE OUR COMPANIES AND TAKE OUR JOBS, THERE ARE GOING TO BE CONSEQUENCES. THEY WON'T TAKE THEM. BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET CARRIER COME IN AND MAKE AIR-CONDITIONERS IN MEXICO AND SELL THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO US, ACROSS A VERY STRONG BORDER NOW, WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. AND WHEN WE EXPLAIN TO THE HEADS OF CARRIER THAT HERE IS THE STORY, EITHER STAY OR IF YOU WANT TO GO TO MEXICO, WE WISH YOU A LOT OF LUCK BUT WHEN YOU SELL YOUR AIR-CONDITIONERS, YOU ARE GOING TO PAY A 35% TAX FOR THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO COME ACROSS THE BORDER. AND YOU KNOW WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. THEY ARE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THIS GOVERNMENT WAS THINKING ABOUT LOW INTEREST LOANS, ZERO INTEREST LOANS AND WAYS TO KEEP OUR KPZCOMPANIES. YOU DON'T NEED THAT. THEY DON'T NEED MONEY. THEY'RE MAKING PLENTY OF MONEY. BUT WE WON'T LET THEM JUST TAKE OUR COMPANIES OUT AND FIRE EVERYBODY. THESE ARE PEOPLE WITH CARRIER FOR MANY, MANY YEARS. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET IT HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY THAT IS SO SMART AGAIN. SO HERE IS THETORY, FOLKS. WE DON'T WIN ANY MORE. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING. WE'RE GOING TO WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO KICK THE HELL OUT OF ISIS. WE HAVE TO END IT. WE HAVE NO CHOICE. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETS. SO IMPORTANT. OUR VETS ARE BEING TREATED SO BADLY. I HAVE SUCH GREAT VETERAN SUPPORT. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE STRONG BORDERS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE WALL -- OH, THAT WALL IS GOING TO BE AS BEAUTIFUL AS A WALL COULD BE. SOMEBODY SAID, MR. TRUMP, SIR, THEY'RE GOING TO CALL IT THE TRUMP WALL. I SAID, WELL THEN I BETTER BUILD IT BIG AND BEAUTIFUL, RIGHT. NO. NO, I DON'T WANT THAT. BUT WE NEED -- WE NEED GREAT BORDERS. BECAUSE WITHOUT BORDERS, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS. OUR JOBS ARE GOING TO COME BACK. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY ON TRADE. RIGHT NOW WE LOSE ALL OF THIS MONEY. YOU LOOK AT JAPAN, THE BIGGEST SHIPS YOU'VE EVER SEEN FLOATING IN, AND I WAS IN LOS ANGELES, THEY FLOAT IN THESE MASSIVE, MASSIVE SHIPS LOADED UP WITH CARS. AND THE CARS ARE POURING JUST LIKE -- I MEAN, NASCAR. I LOVE NASCAR. I LOVE BRIAN FRANCE. HE ENDORSED ME FROM NASCAR, RIGHT. NASCAR. IT IS LIKE NASCAR DRIVERS. KING RICHARD ENDORSED ME. A LOT OF THE GUYS ENDORSED ME. RICHARD PETTY. THEY COME IN AND THEY ARE POURING OFF THESE BOATS. WE SEND THEM WHEAT. WE SEND THEM BEEF. AND WHEN IT GETS THERE, THEY DON'T EVEN WANT IT. THEY SEND IT BACK. YOU WANT TO SEE TRADE IMBALANCE, LOOK AT THE IMBALANCE WE HAVE WITH JAPAN. IT WILL END, FOLKS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SMART PEOPLE NOW. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT DEALS AND FAIR DEALS AND GET ALONG GREAT WITH JAPAN. WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG BETTER WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT US FAIRLY. AND WE HAVE ALL OF THE CARDS. JUST REMEMBER THAT. WE'RE THE PIGGY BANK. BUT THEY ARE GOING TO BREAK OUR PIGGY BANK VERY SOON. BUT WITH THE PIGGY BANK, THEY TAKE THE MONEY OUT. WE HAVE REBUILT CHINA. THE MONEY THEY'VE TAKEN OUT OF THIS COUNTRY, I MEAN THEY HAVE TRAINS THAT CAN HE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. THEY HAVE HIGHWAYS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. PLACES OUTSIDE OF THIS COUNTRY IN THE MIDDLE EAST, DIFFERENT PLACES HAVE AIRPORTS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. WE USED TO BE AT THE TOP. NOW WE'RE LIKE A THIRD-WORLD COUNTRY. SO HERE IS WHAT I SAY. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO PROUD OF YOUR COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO HAPPY. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR JOBS BACK. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR PRIDE BACK. I OFTEN JOKE, YOU'LL BE CALLING UP MIKE PENCE, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER HE'S GOING TO BE YOUR GOVERNOR OR YOUR VICE PRESIDENT OR WHO THE HELL KNOWS. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL UP -- GOOD MAN. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL HIM AND YOU COULD EITHER SAY, GOVERNOR, OR VICE PRESIDENT, SIR, PLEASE, PLEASE SPEAK TO MR. TRUMP. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA, CANNOT STAND ALL OF THESE VICTORIES. WE CAN'T TAKE IT. WE'RE NOT USED TO IT. PLEASE, WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO BEAT ISIS. WE'RE WINNING ON TRADE. WE'RE WINNING AT THE BORDER. WE'RE STOPPING DRUGS FROM POURING IN. WE'RE WINNING ON EDUCATION. WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. PLEASE, PLEASE, MIKE, HELP US. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. AND MIKE WILL COME TO SEE ME. AND SAY, MR. PRESIDENT, SIR, THEY'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA CAN'T STAND IT. I SAY, MIKE, GO BACK AND TELL THEM, WE'RE NOT CHANGING A DAMN THING. WE'RE GOING TO KEEP WINNING. AND WE'RE GOING TO WIN AT EVERY LEVEL. AND WE ARE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA SO GREAT AGAIN, WE'RE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. I LOVE YOU INDIANA. THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR HELP. YOU'RE REALLY SPECIAL PEOPLE. THANK YOU. WE LOVE YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.

7/11/2016

6/28/2016

It is great to be here. Id like to thank Alumisource and all the amazing workers here for hosting us. Today, I am going to talk about how to Make America Wealthy Again.
We are thirty miles from Steel City. Pittsburgh played a central role in building our nation.
The legacy of Pennsylvania steelworkers lives in the bridges, railways and skyscrapers that make up our great American landscape.
But our workers loyalty was repaid with betrayal.
Our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization  moving our jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico and overseas.
Globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very wealthy. But it has left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartache.
When subsidized foreign steel is dumped into our markets, threatening our factories, the politicians do nothing.
For years, they watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communities were plunged into depression-level unemployment.
Many of these areas have still never recovered.
Our politicians took away from the people their means of making a living and supporting their families.
Skilled craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they loved shipped thousands of miles away.
Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state despair.
This wave of globalization has wiped out our middle class.
It doesnt have to be this way. We can turn it all around  and we can turn it around fast.
But if were going to deliver real change, were going to have to reject the campaign of fear and intimidation being pushed by powerful corporations, media elites, and political dynasties.
The people who rigged the system for their benefit will do anything  and say anything  to keep things exactly as they are.
The people who rigged the system are supporting Hillary Clinton because they know as long as she is in charge nothing will ever change.
The inner cities will remain poor.
The factories will remain closed.
The borders will remain open.
The special interests will remain firmly in control.
Hillary Clinton and her friends in global finance want to scare America into thinking small  and they want to scare the American people out of voting for a better future.
READ: How Donald Trump Says Hed Win Americas Trade War
Top U.S. Labor Leader Blasts Donald Trump in Dueling Speeches
My campaign has the opposite message.
I want you to imagine how much better your life can be if we start believing in America again.
I want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare independence from the elites whove led us to one financial and foreign policy disaster after another.
Our friends in Britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, politics and borders.
I was on the right side of that issue  with the people  while Hillary, as always, stood with the elites, and both she and president Obama predicted that one wrong.
Now its time for the American people to take back their future.
Thats the choice we face. We can either give in to Hillary Clintons campaign of fear, or we can choose to Believe In America.
We lost our way when we stopped believing in our country.
America became the worlds dominant economy by becoming the worlds dominant producer.
The wealth this created was shared broadly, creating the biggest middle class the world had ever known.
But then America changed its policy from promoting development in America, to promoting development in other nations.
We allowed foreign countries to subsidize their goods, devalue their currencies, violate their agreements, and cheat in every way imaginable.
Trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas as a result.
I have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years.
Today, we import nearly $800 billion more in goods than we export.
This is not some natural disaster. It is politician-made disaster.
It is the consequence of a leadership class that worships globalism over Americanism.
This is a direct affront to our Founding Fathers, who wanted America to be strong, independent and free.
Our Founding Fathers Understood Trade
George Washington said that the promotion of domestic manufactur[ing] will be among the first consequences to flow from an energetic government.
Alexander Hamilton spoke frequently of the expediency of encouraging manufactur[ing] in the United States. The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that: The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government must produce want and ruin among our people.
Our original Constitution did not even have an income tax. Instead, it had tariffs  emphasizing taxation of foreign, not domestic, production.
Yet today, 240 years after the Revolution, we have turned things completely upside-down.
We tax and regulate and restrict our companies to death, then we allow foreign countries that cheat to export their goods to us tax-free.
As a result, we have become more dependent on foreign countries than ever before.
Ladies and Gentlemen, its time to declare our economic independence once again.
That means reversing two of the worst legacies of the Clinton years.
America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997  even as the country has increased its population by 50 million people.
At the center of this catastrophe are two trade deals pushed by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
First, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Second, Chinas entry into the World Trade Organization.
NAFTA was the worst trade deal in history, and Chinas entrance into the World Trade Organization has enabled the greatest jobs theft in history.
It was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA in 1993, and Hillary Clinton who supported it.
It was also Bill Clinton who lobbied for Chinas disastrous entry into the World Trade Organization, and Hillary Clinton who backed that terrible agreement.
Then, as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stood by idly while China cheated on its currency, added another trillion dollars to our trade deficits, and stole hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property.
The city of Pittsburgh, and the State of Pennsylvania, have lost one-third of their manufacturing jobs since the Clintons put China into the WTO.
Fifty thousand factories across America have shut their doors in that time.
Almost half of our entire manufacturing trade deficit in goods with the world is the result of trade with China.
It was also Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, who shoved us into a job-killing deal with South Korea in 2012.
As reported by the Economic Policy Institute in May, this deal doubled our trade deficit with South Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 American jobs.
As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton Voted for virtually every trade agreement that has cost the workers of this country millions of jobs.
Trade reform, and the negotiation of great trade deals, is the quickest way to bring our jobs back.
To understand why trade reform creates jobs, we need to understand how all nations grow and prosper.
Massive trade deficits subtract directly from our Gross Domestic Product.
From 1947 to 2001  a span of over five decades  our inflation-adjusted gross domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5%.
However, since 2002  the year after we fully opened our markets to Chinese imports  that GDP growth rate has been cut almost in half.
What does this mean for Americans? For every one percent of GDP growth we fail to generate in any given year, we also fail to create over one million jobs.
Americas job creation deficit due to slower growth since 2002 is well over 20 million jobs  and thats just about the number of jobs our country needs right now to put America back to work at decent wages.
The Transpacific-Partnership is the greatest danger yet.
The TPP would be the death blow for American manufacturing.
It would give up all of our economic leverage to an international commission that would put the interests of foreign countries above our own.
It would further open our markets to aggressive currency cheaters. It would make it easier for our trading competitors to ship cheap subsidized goods into U.S. markets  while allowing foreign countries to continue putting barriers in front of our exports.
The TPP would lower tariffs on foreign cars, while leaving in place the foreign practices that keep American cars from being sold overseas. The TPP even created a backdoor for China to supply car parts for automobiles made in Mexico.
The agreement would also force American workers to compete directly against workers from Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries on Earth.
Not only will the TPP undermine our economy, but it will undermine our independence.
The TPP creates a new international commission that makes decisions the American people cant veto.
These commissions are great Hillary Clintons Wall Street funders who can spend vast amounts of money to influence the outcomes.
It should be no surprise then that Hillary Clinton, according to Bloomberg, took a leading part in drafting the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
She praised or pushed the TPP on 45 separate occasions, and even called it the gold standard.
Hillary Clinton was totally for the TPP just a short while ago, but when she saw my stance, which is totally against, she was shamed into saying she would be against it too  but have no doubt, she will immediately approve it if it is put before her, guaranteed.
She will do this just as she has betrayed American workers for Wall Street throughout her career.
Heres how it would go: she would make a small token change, declare the pact fixed, and ram it through.
Thats why Hillary is now only saying she has problems with the TPP in its current form,  ensuring that she can rush to embrace it again at her earliest opportunity.
If the media doesnt believe me, I have a challenge for you. Ask Hillary Clinton if she is willing to withdraw from the TPP her first day in office and unconditionally rule out its passage in any form.
There is no way to fix the TPP. We need bilateral trade deals. We do not need to enter into another massive international agreement that ties us up and binds us down.
A Trump Administration will change our failed trade policy  quickly
Here are 7 steps I would pursue right away to bring back our jobs.
One: I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which has not yet been ratified.
Two: Im going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers.
Three: Im going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements a foreign country is currently using to harm our workers. I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses.
Four: Im going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers. And I dont mean just a little bit better, I mean a lot better. If they do not agree to a renegotiation, then I will submit notice under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreement that America intends to withdraw from the deal.
Five: I am going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China a currency manipulator. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take advantage of the United States will be met with sharply
Six: I am going to instruct the U.S. Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO. Chinas unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO, and I intend to enforce those rules.
Seven: If China does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with Section 201 and 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
President Reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and semiconductor imports threatened U.S. industry. His tariff on Japanese motorcycles was 45% and his tariff to shield Americas semiconductor industry was 100%.
Hillary Clinton, and her campaign of fear, will try to spread the lie that these actions will start a trade war. She has it completely backwards.
Hillary Clinton unleashed a trade war against the American worker when she supported one terrible trade deal after another  from NAFTA to China to South Korea.
A Trump Administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the American people.
The era of economic surrender will finally be over.
A new era of prosperity will finally begin.
America will be independent once more.
Under a Trump Presidency, the American worker will finally have a President who will protect them and fight for them.
We will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens an American job.
We will make America the best place in the world to start a business, hire workers, and open a factory.
This includes massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on American workers and businesses.
We will also get rid of wasteful rules and regulations which are destroying our job creation capacity.
Many people think that these regulations are an even greater impediment than the fact that we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world.
We are also going to fully capture Americas tremendous energy capacity. This will create vast profits for our workers and begin reducing our deficit. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the mines.
A Trump Administration will also ensure that we start using American steel for American infrastructure.
Just like the American steel from Pennsylvania that built the Empire State building.
It will be American steel that will fortify Americans crumbling bridges.
It will be American steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring into the sky.
It will be American steel that rebuilds our inner cities.
It will be American hands that remake this country, and it will be American energy  mined from American resources  that powers this country.
It will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
We are going to put American-produced steel back into the backbone of our country. This alone will create massive numbers of jobs.
On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are going to put America First again.
We are going to make America wealthy again.
We are going to reject Hillary Clintons politics of fear, futility, and incompetence.
We are going to embrace the possibilities of change.
It is time to believe in the future.
It is time to believe in each other.
It is time to Believe In America.
This Is How We Are Going To Make America Great Again  For All Americans.
We Are Going To Make America Great Again For Everyone  Greater Than Ever Before.
Thank you.